Title: 0.106/Notes
URL: https://wiki.sugarlabs.org/go/0.106/Notes
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Sucrose 0.106.0 Release Notes
Contents
1
Introduction
2
What is new for users?
2.1
Sugar Activities
3
What is new for developers?
4
Videos
5
Tarballs
6
How to contribute with testing?
7
Credits
7.1
Patches contributors
7.2
Translations contributors
7.3
We want to especially thank
8
In Memoriam
Introduction
Sugar 0.106.0 is a new stable release of the Sugar Learning Platform. It was released on July 6th 2015. In this release we added performance improvements, new ways of learning collaboratively, more hardware controls, new translations, and of course, a lot of bug fixes.
See
Videos
, below, for some highlights.
What is new for users?
Social Help
let our users discuss about Sugar, Activities and Learning. The discussion platform can be launched for any activity. The topics are automatically organized for each Activity."
The improved
Display device
in the Sugar frame let our users adjust the brightness of the screen. The brightness can also be controlled with the keyboard. The brightness value will be saved and restored across sessions.
Community members have
contributed
with initial translations to Guarani (Paraguay) and Aymara (Peru).
Sugar Activities
The following activities have been updated since 0.104
Write Books
Browse
Record
Get Books
Distance
JAMediaTube
Speak
Moon
Music Painter
Image Viewer
Memorize
Clock
Read
Terminal
Pippy
Abacus
Turtle Blocks
Turtle Blocks (Javascript version)
Story
TurtleBots
Write
Details can be found on the activity pages on
[1]
What is new for developers?
Activities are provided with a
new API
to call other activities. This API allows the expression of contextual phrases such as "read this book" or "edit this code with that editor".
We have introduced a
new scrolling detector
which improves the performance of the Journal and Activities lists.
Videos
Please check out
this
fantastic video made by our community members. It is also available in
Spanish
.
Tarballs
http://download.sugarlabs.org/sources/sucrose/glucose/sugar/sugar-0.106.0.tar.xz
http://download.sugarlabs.org/sources/sucrose/glucose/sugar-toolkit-gtk3/sugar-toolkit-gtk3-0.106.0.tar.xz
http://download.sugarlabs.org/sources/sucrose/glucose/sugar-artwork/sugar-artwork-0.106.0.tar.xz
http://download.sugarlabs.org/sources/sucrose/glucose/sugar-datastore/sugar-datastore-0.106.0.tar.xz
http://download.sugarlabs.org/sources/sucrose/glucose/sugar-runner/sugar-runner-0.106.0.tar.xz
How to contribute with testing?
Please visit our
testing section
to see all the alternatives to test this new release.
Credits
Patches contributors
Sam Parkinson
Gonzalo Odiard
Martin Abente Lahaye
James Cameron
Manuel Quiñones
et al.
Translations contributors
Ricardo Saucedo
Matias Baez
Pablo Ortega
Richar Nuñez
Clara Benitez
Sergio Britos
Edgar Quispe Chambi
Sebastian Silva
et al.
We want to especially thank
the Infrastructure team which does all this great work in the background without which the development would not be possible at all,
the deployments that provide the development team with feedback from the field,
the Design team which guided the design of features with UI changes or impact on the workflow,
the Translation team which makes sure that Sugar is enjoyable in the local languages of our users,
the developers that submit patches for new features and bug fixes and do review other's patches,
the maintainers that make sure their code is shippable and which provide packagers with new tarballs,
the packagers which provide distributions with new Sugar packages,
the SoaS, Toast and Debian team for providing a Sugar version to test with during the development cycle,
the testers for finding the small and bigger issues,
the release team and Development team for coordinating those efforts.
This time, Martin Abente Lahaye took the responsibility of managing the release.
In Memoriam
This release of Sugar (v0.106) is dedicated to the memory of Marco Gritti Presenti. Marco was a member of the original Sugar team and the lead Red Hat engineer on the project over its first three years of development. Soft-spoken but determined, Marco was a founding member of Sugar Labs and one of the original members of the Sugar Labs oversight board. Beyond the code he contributed to the project -- he was a gifted software engineer -- Marco shared with us his vision that Sugar ultimately belongs to its users: it is the clarity of this vision that is still reflected in the Sugar code-base and the spirit of the Sugar Labs community.