Title: 0.84/Everywhere
URL: https://wiki.sugarlabs.org/go/0.84/Everywhere
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Contents
1
Run everywhere
1.1
People
1.2
Ideas
1.3
Activities
1.4
Status
2
Deploy to a larger user base
2.1
People
2.2
Actions
2.3
Status
Run everywhere
People
Owner: Marco Pesenti Gritti
Peers
Simon Schampijer
Morgan Collett
Ideas
Encourage Fedora and Ubuntu communities to produce
Sugar LiveCD
. Advertise them, get schools to use them and to provide feedback.
LiveUSB is also important, as it means someone can make changes;
making sure that multiple Live media Sugars can talk to each other so that people can experience the collaboration features is very important.
Sugar chooses a font based on the screen size and dpi (graphics/style.py); we need to make this work better for non-xo devices.
Sugar should adapt itself to the screen resolutions of other non-xo laptops, such as Classmate 2's 1024x600 resolution.
bundlebuilder should be improved to use the correct system paths when doing a system installation, so that activities can be more easily packaged into rpm or deb. For example, translations should go in /usr/share/locale.
all major linux distributions should have high quality Sugar packages, so for their users is just a matter of installing sugar and have it running. Contacts and progress tracker
here
.
Activities
We should make sure that activities works well on our various livecd. Here is a list of important ones, provided by Bill Kerr.
X2o: A puzzle solving and critical thinking game similar to the Incredible Machine; make crazy contraptions to get the O back on top of the X
vu.lux.olpc.Pacmanpacman: A Pacman clone
gcompris: educational games
guido van robot: Educational programming language, IDE and lessons; Stable with 18 lessons included
simcity: Construct and maintain your own city
Terminal – linux command line (explore some linux commands)
Story Builder - Graphical story constructor with a variety of characters and backgrounds and simple word-processing capabilities (MaMaMedia)
Speak – An animated face that speaks whatever you type
Scratch - multimedia visual programming language
Slider puzzle- Slider Puzzle to improve on puzzle solving skills (MaMaMedia)
Pippy – Python Programming language/environment (run samples by clicking on grey horizontal line)
Maze - Maze game
Jump - A Marble-Jumping Solitaire Game. Works in Sugar; Created by a Team at Carnegie Mellon University
Jigsaw Puzzle - Classic picture-constructing game (MaMaMedia)
DrGeo II - Euclidean Geometry
Etoys - Learning / visual programming / authoring environment; includes Kedama which can simulate hundreds or thousands of objects
FlipSticks - org.worldwideworkshop.olpc.FlipSticks Using keyframes, program a stick figure to twist, turn, tumble and dance (MaMaMedia)
Cartoon Builder - Animate a cartoon character by creating a sequence of poses inside a filmstrip (MaMaMedia)
Chat - Text chat
BlockParty – Tetris-inspired game
Browse - Web browser based on Mozilla Firefox
Status
Some work on bundlebuilder has been done. Fedora packages for activities are really trivial now.
Deploy to a larger user base
People
Owner: ???
Actions
For Sugar to be useful to the elderly (and to help with accessibility) we need to make sure we can do some scaling of fonts and other interface components.
Establish a testing/feedback regime to make sure that these tools really work in the field.
Status
We need an owner and to start fleshing out the actions.