Title: 0.84/Ideas
URL: https://wiki.sugarlabs.org/go/0.84/Ideas
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Contents
1
Glucose
2
Telepathy
3
Control panel
4
Journal
5
Browse
6
Read
7
Chat
8
Write
9
Release Management infrastructure
Glucose
Implement the source key feature for sugar (i.e. add a modal alert like the objectchooser with a filetree on the left and a non-editable gtksourceview on the right)
#7911
Integrate speech synthesis.
(erikos, hemantg)
Implement grab/scroll key
#4470
(erikg?)
Incrementally remove PS functionality in favour of implementing Buddy and Activity directly in Sugar toolkit, opening the way to use other unmodified Telepathy backends and clients.
Make it possible to subscribe to users ("add friends") who you can't see through the server and/or find via Gadget. This means making JIDs human readable, letting the user discover their own JID, providing a way to type them in, and getting the user to approve incoming friend requests.
Autosave more intelligently.  Currently, Activities are autosaved on every "context switch", which makes many things slow.  We should add a "dirty bit" so that Activities only get saved when something has changed, and autosave at most once every N minutes.
Telepathy
Implement peer-to-peer connections in Telepathy Gabble so that one-to-one tube data doesn't go via the XMPP server.  Big performance/reliability wins.
Control panel
Make layout language 'independent' using hippo
#8148
Add section to set the keyboard layout
#6780
Add section for the speech settings
Better use of localization in the language and date&time section
#8312
Get rid of the modify_bg hacks and get this into the theme
Check box on control panel to turn jabber service on/off
#833
(
satellit
07/03/2009)
Journal
Add start-with option to the entry palette. This is useful in the main view of the journal but as well in the
home view activity management
. Use cases are for example the opening of a web-page source in either write or browse without having to reveal the entry's detail view.
Add filter functionality to objectchooser. For example when adding an image into Write the objectchooser should only provide the caller with images
#3060
.
The activity palette in the home view should allow to resume recent journal entries.
Mockup
.
Encourage to title entries
#6128
Organization with tags.
File sharing. Implement
file transfer
(HTML)
for gabble. Implement the UI for file transfer in the Sugar UI (
Object Transfer
).
Add a Portfolio Activity that children use to select key Journal entries. The Portfolio activity would let them sequence and annotate the entries to make a multimedia presentation of their work.
Browse
palette option to download linked file
#2903
object chooser and download alert in the right window
#7498
Read
Improved relationship between ebook mode and collaboration
#7017
#6537
#6538
#6645
#6736
Push evince changes upstream
Chat
Switch UI to GTK to enable text selection
#8472
Wrap as a widget for use in other activities (Andres Ambrois)
Write
Elect new master for collaboration when the sharer leaves
#3445
Colored backgrounds for edits by different participants, as per mockups on
Write
Use one-to-one tubes such as stream tubes when doing any bulk transfers (if they get implemented as P2P; see below).
Release Management infrastructure
An official home page per Sugar component, where you can find:
an official description
a link to the source with a description of which release series is related to which Sucrose development cycle/branch/release
changelogs for each release
Automation for publishing releases with changelogs for the above