Title: 0.90/0.89.5 Notes
URL: https://wiki.sugarlabs.org/go/0.90/0.89.5_Notes
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Contents
1
Sucrose 0.89.5 Release Notes
1.1
Announcement
1.2
Compatibility
1.3
Update to this version
1.4
Glucose (base) modules
1.4.1
Updated
1.4.2
Not Updated
1.5
Glucose news
1.5.1
sugar
1.5.2
sugar-toolkit
1.5.3
Etoys
1.6
Fructose (base activity) modules
1.7
Fructose news
1.8
What is new for packagers
Sucrose 0.89.5 Release Notes
Announcement
This is our development release number 5 in the
0.90 development cycle
! This is our Beta release! We would like to invite you for testing now. The plan is to have a Soas build with the latest 0.90 Sugar packages available by the end of the week. We will send another announcement when it is ready for download.
We now reached
String Freeze
, no string changes may be made without confirmation from the localization team and notification to the release team! We encourage translators to translate the new strings that has been introduced by the various new Features.
Furthermore Tomeu Vizoso made great progress in fixing integration bugs introduced by the
Remove Presence Service
Feature.
The Etoys team reports that the first beta release of Etoys 4.1 is now available. The biggest change is that stopping the Etoys activity will no longer save to the Journal. To save, you will have to press the keep button. The octagonal stop button is replaced by a circular exit button to indicate the new behavior. It puts up a warning before actually quitting. More about the rationale for this change can be found
here
.
Thanks everyone for your great contributions!
Compatibility
There are no known compatibility issues, as of today.
Update to this version
Please use the instructions for your distribution (SoaS, Fedora, Ubuntu, Debian etc) of choice to upgrade to this release. Note that it may take a while until the release is packaged for each distribution. Please stay tuned for distribution specific announcements and watch out for updates at
Get Sugar
.
Glucose
(base) modules
Updated
sugar 0.89.8
sugar-toolkit 0.89.5
etoys 4.1.2384
Not Updated
sugar-base 0.90.0
hulahop 0.7.1
sugar-presence-service 0.90.1
sugar-datastore 0.89.3
sugar-artwork 0.89.4
Glucose news
sugar
AP: signal strength update not separate from state change
#2246
(Simon Schampijer)
Listen to changes to the nick and jabber server settings and update MC appropriately (Tomeu Vizoso)
Journal: Alert if an error occurs when copying to devices in the detail view
#1842
(Simon Schampijer)
Sugar GConf settings breaks mouse buttons behavior in gnome session
#1544
(Aleksey Lim)
Run gnome-keyring-daemon from the 'sugar' script if we are running in Xephyr (Tomeu Vizoso)
sugar-toolkit
sugar.presence: Remove dead code and make clear which methonds are deprecated (Tomeu Vizoso)
Read the public and private keys lazily (Tomeu Vizoso)
Use Account.ConnectionStatus instead of Account.Connection.Status (Tomeu Vizoso)
Etoys
no save on stop under Sugar, must use keep button (enable sugarAutoSave to revert to old behavior)
easier to make flap (see supplies)
GSoC addition: scriptable speech bubbles
translatability of Text object must be enabled explicitly
minor fixes
updated translations from Pootle
added languages zh_CN, ca, sk, pap, pl, km, en_GB, ar_SY
revised Italian, Portuguese, and German QuickGuides
Fructose
(base activity) modules
Pippy 37
Browse 117
Calculate 32
Etoys 116
Fructose news
No news.
What is new for packagers
New API has been added to telepathy-gabble and telepathy-salut to support the work on the collaboration framework, which results in needing 0.9.16 for tp-gabble and 0.3.13 for tp-salut.
One of the goals of the collaboration refactoring was dropping functionality in sugar that has been implemented in
telepathy-mission-control
, so Sugar now depends on tp-mission-control 5.4.3.