Title: 0.90/0.89.2 Notes
URL: https://wiki.sugarlabs.org/go/0.90/0.89.2_Notes
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Contents
1
Sucrose 0.89.2 Release Notes
1.1
Announcement
1.2
Compatibility
1.3
Update to this version
1.4
Glucose modules
1.4.1
Updated
1.4.2
Not Updated
1.5
Glucose news
1.5.1
sugar
1.5.2
sugar-datastore
1.6
Fructose modules
1.7
Fructose news
1.7.1
Pippy
1.7.2
Browse
1.7.3
Calculate
1.8
What is new for packagers
Sucrose 0.89.2 Release Notes
Announcement
This is our second release in the
0.90 development cycle
.
There have been many great fixes already helping to make Sugar even more stable. From a user point of view we want to highlight the addition of the keybindings for accessing the Journal (F5) and the Frame (F6). Daniel Drake has as well changed the appearance of the mesh device to be only present when the mesh is active (this is the same behavior than that of the wired device).
On the activity side many fixes have been going into Pippy version 37, especially on fixing layout issues on different resolutions. Thanks to the Pippy team for all your hard work!
The new Browse maintainers have not waited long with a new release. Shortcuts for back/forward/reload, support for CAcerts and user visible support for tabs. The Browse team would like to have feedback especially on the latter. Thanks again to Lucian and Sascha for taking on this valuable task.
There is also a new bundle from the Calculate team around Gary and Reinier. The activity does use the new activity toolbar introduced in 0.86 now. From a first glance the interface has improved a lot, please report back what you think about it.
We encourage people to start doing testing. The sooner the developers get feedback about their changes the better. The Fedora team is doing nightly builds which contains the Soas images [3]. And as the Fedora packager team is doing a fantastic job at packaging the latest tarballs the release should be packaged up soon. I will do another announcement 
once they are available. By now you can already test the 0.89.1 release if you grab the latest image from
here
.
Thanks everyone for your great contributions!
Compatibility
There are no known compatibility issues, as of today.
Update to this version
Please use the instructions for your distribution (SoaS, Fedora, Ubuntu, Debian etc) of choice to upgrade to this release. Note that it may take a while until the release is packaged for each distribution. Please stay tuned for distribution specific announcements and watch out for updates at
Get Sugar
.
Glucose modules
Updated
sugar 0.89.2
sugar-datastore 0.89.2
Not Updated
sugar-artwork 0.89.2
sugar-toolkit 0.89.1
sugar-base 0.88.0
etoys 4.0.2340-2
Etoys 115
hulahop 0.7.1
Glucose news
sugar
"sugar-control-panel -l" gives non-fatal error
#2106
(fran)
Trying to register to XS while offline produces in no user visible errors
#2062
(Tim McNamara)
Only show mesh device icon when mesh is active (Daniel Drake)
Add frame and journal keybindings (Daniel Drake)
Journal xobundle removal wont remove installed one (Martin Abente)
sugar-datastore
reduce _FLUSH_TIMEOUT to 5 seconds
#2132
Set index_updated flag on ds shutting down
#2095
Fructose modules
Pippy 37
Browse 117
Calculate 32
Fructose news
Pippy
Remove broken slideshow until it is fixed
#2054
(James Cameron)
Adapt pippy examples to screen dimensions (except xolympics),
#9260
(James Cameron)
Browse
keyboard shortcuts for back/forward/reload
add CAcert
user-visible tab support. Note that the tab support will disable itself if it detects cairo version >= 1.08.10
Calculate
Support for new Sugar toolbars (old toolbars supported for older versions of Sugar)
Fixed degrees/radians feature
Fixed issue with scientific/engineering notation feature button
Includes latest translation files
Corrected several help toolbar shortcut typos
New feature to display integer results in decimal, binary, octal, hexadecimal
True and False supported as boolean constants
Updated deg/rad, and sci/eng toolbar buttons to more clearly show the options and current state
Fixed minus sign as first character in input so it no longer inserts the previous result
Improved display of some calculations that provide an exact result
Updated help strings
Added missing strings to pootle ready for translation
What is new for packagers
Nothing new as of today.