Title: Activities/Tortuga de Mexico
URL: https://wiki.sugarlabs.org/go/Activities/Tortuga_de_Mexico
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Contents
1
What is Tortuga de Mexico
1.1
Where to get Tortuga de Mexico
1.2
How to play Tortuga de Mexico
1.3
What are the challenges?
2
Reporting problems
3
Credits
What is Tortuga de Mexico
Tortuga de Mexico presents shape challenges to the learner that must be completed using basic Logo-blocks. The challenges are based on artwork of Mexico.
Tortuga de Mexico is a fork of
Activities/Turtle Confusion
that presents
40 shape challenges
to be programmed by moving the Logo turtle.
Additional features:
You can import challenges from the Sugar Journal (save them as an image file)
You can save your results as: (1) a Turtle Art program; (2) a UCB Logo project; or (3) a PNG image
You can overlay Cartesian and polar coordinate grids
Additional blocks can be added through the Turtle Blocks plugin mechanism
Where to get Tortuga de Mexico
http://activities.sugarlabs.org/en-US/sugar/addon/4668
How to play Tortuga de Mexico
Select a challenge from the Combo Box (Shown above: 'mexico 6').
Use blocks from the various palettes to instruct the Logo turtle to replicate the pattern.
Please refer to the
Activities/Turtle Art
pages for basic instructions on how to use the block interface and the details of various toolbars.
The shape challenges are loaded from the Combo Box on the Project (Palette) toolbar. When you select a shape, it will be loaded onto the canvas. When you use the Erase button, the current shape is reloaded.
The available blocks are small subset of the Turtle Block blocks: the basic turtle blocks; a reduced palette of pen and color blocks; some basic arithmetic operators; the repeat block; and the action and box blocks.
The Export palette includes save as Logo; save as image; and save as Turtle Art.
What are the challenges?
The challenges are problems of symmetry and geometry which typically can be solved by using a combination of rotations and repeat blocks.
File:Mexico-chart.png
Reporting problems
Please file bugs at
[1]
.
To list all open tickets of Tortuga de Mexico, see
[2]
.
Credits
Walter Bender wrote and maintains the code.
Brian Silverman is the first author of Turtle Art.