Title: Activities/Toaster/UI
URL: https://wiki.sugarlabs.org/go/Activities/Toaster/UI
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
The UI for toaster is being designed to be useful without the keyboard so that it can be used in book mode after it's configured with the .iso files you will be providing on USB sticks or CDs.
These old style menus in sugar < 0.86 should work well.  Implementation priorities are outlined below.
Activity Menu
Allow a name to be used for the session - required
Share with: initially disabled
Keep initially disabled
Stop - required
Edit
Undo initially disabled
Redo initially disabled
Copy - useful for text in entry boxes
Paste - useful for text in entry boxes
Full keyboard controls will be enabled for configuration but limiting choice is necessary for creating USB sticks and writable discs to allow unattended self-service use.
Create Copy
screen top/left - Choose Image
first step - hard coded image will be available to burn to a hard coded target
initially much of this will be delegated to the Journal interface
initially only one iso / journal entry will be used for the entire application
When one wants to select from multiple .isos should a journal entry be one "Toaster configuration" configured in this screen with it's own separate Journal entry?
the screen will allow selection of a single image (later a set of images) to burn.
later. when browsing the .isos shared from other people this Browse will be used to copy them locally in conjunction with the journal to USB sticks.  Major checking for space constraints will be required.
screen middle/right - Choose Target
many kinds of checks will be required
screen bottom / new screen - Create Copy
Perhaps an optional password protection or at least a confirmation dialog box will be necessary to get out of full screen mode to prevent accidental misconfiguration by casual users.
This arrangement should map pretty well to new style toolbars in Sugar >= 0.86 as well.
Note for XO users: one issue when using emulation or a USB keyboard is
keyboard equivalents
of things like the Frame key (alt-shift-f).