Title: Activity Team/Obsolete/Services Collab
URL: https://wiki.sugarlabs.org/go/Activity_Team/Services/Collab
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
NOTE:
The content of this page is considered
DEPRECATED and OBSOLETE
It is preserved for historical research, along with its
talk page
.
corresponding project was never created
Contents
1
Summary
2
Contacts
3
Current status
4
Detailed Description
5
Dependencies
6
Documentation
7
How To Test
8
Comments and Discussion
9
Sources
Summary
GObject based library to provide high level client API for what activity developers might need to code collab activities.
This library is a part of
Polyol group
.
Contacts
User:alsroot
Current status
For regular services:
How many branches are stable for what Sugar Platforms, note that some activities could be stuck to particular stable branch, so do not delete your stable branches if they still work in declared sugar environments. See
Versioning guide
.
Branch
[1]
Sugar Platforms
Support status/Notes
0
0.82
-
1.00
is comming
For wrappers to native packages:
This service is a
wrapper
for native package thus its versions are versions of accessible packages in current users' environment.
Detailed Description
Expand on the summary, if appropriate.  A couple of sentences suffices to explain the goal, but the more details you can provide the better.
Dependencies
What other services or 0install packages depend on this service? Are there changes outside the developers' control on which completion of this service depends?  In other words, does your service depend on completion of another service owned by someone else or that you would need to coordinate, which might cause you to be unable to finish on time?  Other upstream projects like Python?
Documentation
Is there upstream documentation on this service, or notes you have written yourself?  Has this topic been discussed in the mailing list or during a meeting? Link to that material here so other interested developers can get involved.
If auto-documentation field is set in
service.info
file, API documentation will be generated on this page:
Collab API documentation
How To Test
Activity Team/Obsolete/Services Collab/Testing
Comments and Discussion
See
discussion tab for this service
Sources
http://git.sugarlabs.org/projects/polyol