Title: Activities/ShareJournalStats
URL: https://wiki.sugarlabs.org/go/Activities/ShareJournalStats
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Contents
1
About Share Journal Statistics
2
Where to get Share Journal Statistics
3
Using Share Journal Statistics
3.1
The Toolbars
4
Learning with Share Journal Statistics
5
Where to report problems
6
Credits
About Share Journal Statistics
The Share Journal Statistics Activity uploads activity usage statistics from a classroom of students to the teacher's Journal.
Where to get Share Journal Statistics
The Share Journal Statistics activity is available for download from the
Sugar Activity Library
:
Share Journal Statistics
The source code is available on
the Sugar Labs Gitorious server
.
Using Share Journal Statistics
There are two modes: share and join. Presumably, the one who first launches the activity and shares it is the classroom teacher. Students then join the activity from the Neighborhood View. Nothing except sharing and joining is required. Everything else is automatic.
Sharers will see XO icons appear on the screen as joiners join and upload their Journal statistics. These uploaded files are saved to the sharer's Journal.
Joiners will see a bar-graph display of their Journal statistics.
the joiner sees Journal statistics
the sharer sees whom has uploaded statistics
The Toolbars
Activity-toolbar Button
opens standard Sugar activity toolbar; it is on this toolbar where the Share palette is found.
Stop Button
used to exit the activity
Learning with Share Journal Statistics
Share Journal Statistics is part of a collection of efforts to make learning visible. It is largely a subset of the
Activities/AnalyzeJournal
efforts. What is different here is that we make the classroom statistics available to the teacher.
Your suggestions for enhancements and/or use cases...
Where to report problems
You can
soon
report bugs and make feature requests
on our bug-tracking system
(You need to create an account first). To list all open tickets of Story you can use
query component=AnalyzeJournal
. You are also welcome to leave comments/suggestions on the
Talk:Activities/ShareJournalStats
page.
Credits
Story was written and is maintained by
User:Walter
.