Title: Activities/Cells
URL: https://wiki.sugarlabs.org/go/Activities/Cells
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Contents
1
Background
2
Instructions
3
Contributors
4
Dependencies
5
To Do List
Background
Aliens have abducted two each of six species from Earth. All are currently held captive on a
spaceship returning to the alien home-planet, with each species in a different cell. Your goal is to
have one of each type of species escape to the center of the ship. A group of unique individuals,
one for each species, will give you the strength you need to overpower the alien guards and
release everyone. Not all escape attempts will be successful, and animals might have to be
captured again to allow another to species to escape. Can you organize the escape from the alien
ship and return to Earth?
This game is based on the mechanisms present in gene regulatory networks, which help a 
biological cell respond to changes in its environment dynamically. The board is basically a 
circular bacterial DNA strand, the guards are RNA polymerase, the captives are transcribed RNA 
sequences which become promoters and repressors for other transcription sites, and escaped 
captives actually become proteins in the cell. Of course, it all has to be abstracted somewhat to 
make an interesting puzzle, but I hope it gets across some of the basic concepts of positive and 
negative feedback loops. More info about gene regulatory networks can be found at
http://doegenomestolife.org/science/generegulatorynetwork.shtml
http://cnx.rice.edu/content/m12383/latest/
Instructions
Each round, you will choose who will first attract the guards by clicking on that cell. Guards will start their
examinations in that cell, then examine each cell clockwise. When examined, a species could try
to escape. The guards will then search the secret hideouts for attempted escapes. After the
guards have visited all cells once and exited, you have the choice to return any escaped
prisoners to their hideout location by clicking on the individual prisoners in the center. Keep taking turns until there is one of each captive species in
the central Escape Area.
Full Rules can be found at -
http://www.piecepack.org/rules/CellManagement.pdf
Contributors
Cell Management being developed at
Centenary College of Louisiana
by
Mark Goadrich
and Nolan Baker.
Dependencies
Cell Management is built with
Pygame
using the Pygame wrapper
SugarGame
wrapper.
To Do List
Cell Management is a long way from finished.
To Become Beta
- update graphics to fit the story better
- fix ending to display win screen
- add ability to start new game
- clicking is important, change images when focused
To Become Release
- add option for other size boards 4, 6, 8
- add sound (because what's space without sound)
- add ability to save/load games