Title: Activity Team/Packaging
URL: https://wiki.sugarlabs.org/go/Activity_Team/Packaging
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Packaging is the making of a software package for use by a
package manager
in Linux distributions such as Fedora, Debian, or Ubuntu.
Contents
1
Common issues
1.1
Publish source tarballs for each release
1.2
Create a trac component for your activity
1.3
Check copyright and licensing
Common issues
Publish source tarballs for each release
Some packagers prefer to work from tarballs rather than the activity bundles.  This is because activity bundles contain built components instead of only source code.
If your activity is part of Fructose follow
Module Release
instead.
Make a source tarball as follows. It will be placed inside the dist/ directory.
python setup.py dist_source
Upload it on the web. If you need a server to upload it to,
ask for a shell account
.  When you have access, create a directory under /upload/sources/honey for your activity and copy the tarball to it.
Update the Honey table on the
Source Code
page with a link to the latest version. Add an entry if your activity is not yet listed.
Create a trac component for your activity
Users or packagers may report problems with your activity, either;
enable the Issues feature in the GitHub repository, or;
open a ticket on
http://bugs.sugarlabs.org
, under the trac component, to request a
component
for your activity.
Check copyright and licensing
Many translations lack copyright and licensing info completely or they provide just a boilerplate.The package maintainer should edit the .pot file to replace these:
SOME DESCRIPTIVE TITLE
THE PACKAGE'S COPYRIGHT HOLDER
PACKAGE
When that is done, they should get in contact with each translator to
make them adopt that improved boilerplate and themselves replace these:
FIRST AUTHOR <EMAIL@ADDRESS>
YEAR
When doing above, it makes good sense to also tidy the gettext hints to
have proper info too, but that is just nice-to-have for semi-automated
processing, not crucial as the licensing problem.