Title: Archive/Current Events/2014-12-15
URL: https://wiki.sugarlabs.org/go/Archive/Current_Events/2014-12-15
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Sugar Digest
1. I spent the month of October reacquainting myself with Javascript. Since I cannot learn without learning about something (to paraphrase Seymour Paper), I wrote a new version of
Turtle Blocks in Javascript
. It is far from finished, but it is already usuable (at least from a Chrome browser -- for some reason I have broken it on Firefox). Feedback most welcome both in terms of the activity itself and any improvements I can make to the
code
. (Note: saving is a bit flaky at the moment, so please be prepared to lose your work.)
It is inevitable that Javascript/HTML5 is in our future and so I am determined to make the best of it. While we were in San Francisco at the Google Summer of Code reunion, Martin Abente, Gonzalo Odiard, and I sent time with Raul Gutierrez Segales working on several aspects of the Sugar-web framework, including a model for "under the tree" collaboration. Martin wrote a simple server using socket.io and I wrote a simple neighborhood view that lets you see your collaborators. We had the opportunity to bounce ideas off Ben Schwartz, Sameer Verma, Aaron Borden, and Bernie Innocenti.
Raul, Martin, and I also did some brainstorming about developing a new web backend for the Sugar datastore based on git. Details to follow.
Tip of the hat to Alex Kleider, who hosted our Sugar Camp on his houseboat in Redwood City. Alex has also been providing me with comprehensive feedback on Turtle Blocks JS.
Aside: Raul added a wrapper to Turtle Blocks JS that enables it to be launched as a Facebook App. Not public yet as we await Facebook approval, but it opens some interesting possibilities about where we can take some of the core ideas from Sugar.
2. The Google Summer of Code reunion was lots of fun. A chance to catch up with old friends and to help bring into focus some future directions. I spent time with the Google Code In team and I got Sugar Lab's application submitted. We still need to flesh out the [Google_Code_In_2014|wiki page]] with more task ideas and add our growing mentor list. Please contact me regarding details.
3. Gonzalo, Aaron, and Sameer organized Turtle Art Day San Francisco in conjunction with the OLPC SF meeting. While more sparsely attended than we had anticipated, nonetheless, it was an enriching experience for those who came. Martin also joined the fun, helping with some Turtle Bots programming.
4. It is not too late to toss your hat into the ring for the annual Sugar Labs Oversight Board election (AKA SLOBs). Four (4) seats are open (due to staggered seat terms) for election / re-election to the Sugar Labs Oversight Board for 2013-2014, those of Daniel Francis, Gonzalo Odiard, Adam Holt, and Claudia Urrea. Please let me know if you are interested running for one of our board seats and also, please add your self to the
candidates' wiki page
. Also, since only members receive ballots, please be sure to sign up for membership by following
the instructions in the wiki
. Finally, we need help running the election itself. Please contact me (or Luke Faraone) if you are interested in helping.
Sugar Labs
5. Please visit our
planet
.