Title: Archive/Current Events/2012-11-25
URL: https://wiki.sugarlabs.org/go/Archive/Current_Events/2012-11-25
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Contents
1
Sugar Digest
1.1
In the community
1.2
Tech Talk
1.3
Sugar Labs
Sugar Digest
1. Sugar Labs has been selected as one of ten projects to participate in
Google Code In
. We join, among others, our colleagues at Fedora et al., in soliciting the participation of high-school (and in our case, middle-school) students to work on projects during a six-week sprint beginning on November 26. This is a great chance for the youth who have been so instrumental in our growth over the past year to show off their talents to the world (and two of them will hopefully win a trip to visit Google). Please help Chris Leonard and me finalize the project and mentor lists over the next few days. (We are offering coding projects, documentation and training projects, outreach, quality assurance, and user interface, so even if you are not a developer, you likely have some skills to devote to the Code In.
NOTE TO MENTORS: Please register as a mentor by going to
[1]
.  Click login (create an account or login with your Google account). The fill out the Request to be a Mentor form
[2]
NOTE TO COMMUNITY: Please add to our
task lists
and please recruit participants.
2. I am in transit back to Boston from a 3-day trip to Chihuahua, Mexico. I gave a lecture on Sugar at Campuslink 2.0, the annual tech conference at UACH. I had a lot of fun with the faculty and students and even managed to squeeze in a short tutorial on hacking Sugar on my way to the airport this morning. I am looking forward to growing participation in the Sugar community. (Note to CJL: they are very interested in providing Rarámuri language support for Sugar.)
3. Sugar Labs is holding its annual election to the oversight board early next month. In anticipation of the election, I urge you to sign up for membership in the Sugar community. You need not be a software developer to join: contributions come in many forms, including: teaching, documenting, promoting, supporting, etc. (Note: there is no membership fee.) So, if you are not already a member,
please sign up
before 23 November.
"If you're wondering whether you meet the requirements, if you're a teacher using Sugar in your classroom, regularly reading mailing lists, or have discussed Sugar in IRC, you probably do."
If you are interested in running for one of the open board seats, open to any community member, please feel free to contact me or the membership committee with any questions before 7 December.
4. Irma Alvarez has completed Fructose (and Dextrose) translations of Sugar into Quechua. Next up: the Honey strings.
In the community
5. The python-joven (Python youth) community has been busy. A number of Sugar and GNOME-related workshops were given last week:
Introduction to Gtk 3 (Ignacio Rodriguez and Flavio Danesse)
Game Development on glucose (Ezequiel Pereira)
My text editor for GNOME (on gtk 2) (Cristian Garcia)
Sugar (Agustín Zubiaga and Cristhofer Travieso)
Playing with python on my phone (Agustín Zubiaga and Cristhofer Travieso)
A media player on Gstreamer 1.0 (Flavio Danesse)
A Client Server program (Flavio Danesse)
6. Worth a read: a
blog from a new Sugar community member
Tech Talk
7. The
latest Butia project
by Nicolas Furquez and Rafael Sisto is pretty cool.
Sugar Labs
Visit our
planet
for more updates about Sugar and Sugar deployments.