Title: Archive/Current Events/2010-06-10
URL: https://wiki.sugarlabs.org/go/Archive/Current_Events/2010-06-10
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Contents
1
Sugar Digest
1.1
In the community
1.2
Tech talk
1.3
Sugar Labs
Sugar Digest
1.
Paraguay educa
team conducted a two-week workshop on Sugar Activity development. It is great that deployments are facilitating local Activity development—many of our most popular activities have come from downstream, which is exactly as it should be.
The Paraguay course was taught by Raúl Gutierrez, Bernie Innocenti, Martin Abente, and Jorge Saldivar. They covered all the basics and broke the students into project teams, which resulted in four new activities: Scrabble, Pintando Fracciones, SugarBrain, and Conozco. (The
detailed syllabus
is available on their wiki.)
Raúl raised an interesting question on IRC (and subsequently in
email
) about issuing a certification of participation in the class. It has been a goal that as Sugar deployments expand, affiliates of Local Sugar Labs would offer services. We have a mechanism for approving the creation of local labs. Is that mechanism adequate, or should we have a separate mechanism for approving the certifications they award? (As someone who would be looking to hire a developer, it would be reassuring to know that Sugar Labs has confidence in their skills. This would suggest that there be a community-based process in place.)
In the case of Moodle, only selected "Moodle Partners" can officially certify a developer's skills in Moodle-based e-learning. They have a "rigorous and highly-regarded assessment programme developed by the international Moodle community." We have no such rigorous Sugar assessment program, but perhaps the Activity Team should develop one. In the meantime, I am in favor of deferring to our local Sugar Labs.
2. Meanwhile, we have surpassed the 3-million-served mark on our
activity portal
.
3. CeibalJam, a community-based group in Uruguay, which was recently acknowledged by Ars Electronica, has made yet another contribution:
JAMedia
, an advanced multimedia player for Sugar. (See it in action on
YouTube
.)
Features include:
multiple audio formats
multiple video formats
on-line radio
on-line streaming video
4. Last week we announced Sugar-on-a-Stick Mirabelle. This week, Thomas C Gilliard announced a revised Sugar-Creation-Kit DVD for downloading for "sneakernet" and behind-firewall installs. From one
download
, you have everything you need to locally build a complete environment for Sugar. See
http://people.sugarlabs.org/Tgillard/SugarCreationKit09-Contents.txt
for details.
5. Alas, I was unable to attend the recent Deployment Team meeting, but Tabitha Roder took
detailed notes
. It reads like a great start to addressing the questions of how we build a bridge between developers and deployments and between deployments themselves. Thanks to all who attended and to Raul for organizing it.
In the community
6. Sugar will be represented at
Linux Tag 2010
(June 9–12 in Berlin).
7.
Sugar World Cup 2010
will be held from 11 June to 11 July.
Tech talk
8. Aleksey Lim has been working on the Sugar 0install version of Open Office for Kids. See
[1]
.
9. I added a few new features to the
Abacus activity
, including a binary abacus and an abacus that lets you add fractions, e.g., 1/2+1/3+1/6.
Sugar Labs
Gary Martin has generated a SOM from the past week of discussion on the IAEP mailing list.
2010 May 22-28
(45 emails)
Visit our
planet
for more updates about Sugar and Sugar deployments.