Title: Archive/Current Events/2011-10-18
URL: https://wiki.sugarlabs.org/go/Archive/Current_Events/2011-10-18
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Sugar Digest
1. As a community member, it is important that your voice be heard. One mechanism is for you to participate in our upcoming election: We will be holding an election for three Sugar Labs oversight board (SLOB) positions at the end of next month. If you are not already a
member
of Sugar Labs, please send your name and an explanation of your contribution to Sugar Labs in an email to
members at sugarlabs dot org
. If you are a member, please
consider being a candidate
for one of the SLOB positions. While we are reasonably well represented in the developer community, we are, IMHO, under represented by our user community.
2. Peter Robinson announced the release of
Coconut
, the latest version of Sugar on a Stick. It is based on Sugar
0.92
and Fedora 15. In addition to the numerous new features described in the Release Notes, Peter has gone to great lengths to make the build system sufficiently robust that it is possible to remix SoaS to meet the needs of individual deployments. Congratulations to everyone who has contributed to this important vehicle for getting Sugar into the hands of more children.
3. Ignacio Rodrigez, a young developer from Uruguay was issued a Magellan computer from Plan Ceibal upon entering middle school. He pointed out to me that the machine comes with Sugar installed on top of Ubuntu. Details are still a bit sketchy, but some version of Sugar is running (and presumably supported by someone). The only activity shipped with Sugar is a very old version of Turtle Art. This is somewhat ironic, since Turtle Art can be run directly from GNOME. I asked Ignacio to please install the latest version of Turtle Blocks, which he was able to do with apparently no difficulties.
Sugar Labs
Gary Martin has generated a SOM from the past week of discussion on the IAEP mailing list.
October 1-7 (46 emails)
Visit our planet
[1]
for more updates about Sugar and Sugar deployments.