Title: Archive/Current Events/2012-06-01
URL: https://wiki.sugarlabs.org/go/Archive/Current_Events/2012-06-01
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Sugar Digest
1. Sugar 0.96 has been officially released. You can read all about it at
0.96/Notes
.
2. Guzman Trindad has posted some great videos of various physics investigations on the XO (See
[1]
).
3. EduJAM! presented awards for
the best Sugar activities
. Although they were not singled out in any special way, the youth of Uruguay managed to walk away with six of the prizes. Congratulations to Christofer, Agustin, Daniel, et al. for your contributions. A tip of the hat to the adult contributors too: Flavio, Gabriel, Alan, Andres, and Alejandro.
By my rough estimate, approximately 10% of all Sugar activities have been written by kids who grew up on Sugar. It would interesting to understand the phenomenon. But we must be doing something right.
I did learn that Christofer has been in an on-going dialogue with Rosamel Ramirez, a teacher in Duranzo about his activity development. Their latest collaboration is
JAMuliples
. Good stuff.
4. Some of you may be following the discussion about "New Co." on the iaep list
[2]
and
[3]
. To summarize, we are exploring alternative structures for Sugar Labs, which may well involve the creation of a new organization -- to augment our FOSS development efforts housed at the SFC -- to support the auxiliary operations involved with supporting the code in the field.
I solicited feedback on the specific goals for a New Co. Aleksey reminded us that
our stated mission
as a community is much broader than just software development: we want our software to be used and we want to have a positive influence of other people writing learning software. We came together as a community because we share certain principles about learning and we want to help people to "embody these principals 'in the field'."
In trying to answer my specific question, Aleksey Lim said: the "new organization should provide practices and procedures how to setup local deployment program in most useful way." and the "new organization should provide a way to forward funding... to particular program[s] and provide everything to make this funding open/clear for donators and easy handled by local deployment people." Finally, he posited that perhaps the "new organization will be a guarantee for institutions where local deployment happens (schools, etc.) to make them assured that even after finishing the program, there will be a way to get some help."
Martin Langhoff raised some important points as well: "The _top priority_ should be to get stuff done with your own means...", that "the good name of SL is a precious asset based on work from a global effort", but we should "let each group do their own thing. It's their name, their reputation on the line."
We'll be continuing the discussion at next week's Sugar Labs oversight board (SLOB) meeting. Please join us.
5. On a personal note, my heart goes out to Marco Presenti Gritti, who posted on his
blog
this week that he has cancer. Marco was part of the team that created Sugar and was at my side when we created Sugar Labs. Marco: know that there are many people thinking of you.
Sugar Labs
Visit our
planet
for more updates about Sugar and Sugar deployments.