Title: Archive/Current Events/2015-01-21
URL: https://wiki.sugarlabs.org/go/Archive/Current_Events/2015-01-21
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Sugar Digest
1. Google Code In update: After the first two weeks, we have 33 participants and almost 140 tasks completed. The pace is faster than in years past, perhaps because we have more experienced Sugar users each year. You can follow the action (the contest runs for five more weeks) at
GCI 2014
.
At the current pace, almost 500 tasks will have been completed by the end of the contest. If you have project ideas, please let me (or any of the other mentors) know. We can continue to add new tasks throughout the contest. Tasks include coding, but also documentation, quality assurance, outreach, etc.
2. We continue to make progress on Turtle Blocks JS (the Javascript version of Turtle Blocks). There have been many new contributions from participants in Google Code In and in generally, the code is approaching a point of stability. You can try it by visiting
turtle.sugarlabs.org
or by downloading the activity locally from
github
. Any and all comments, feedback, bug reports, merge requests, and suggestions welcome.
Tech Talk
3. Martin Abente has been working on new translation platform, including a new Pootle instance. He has been adding repositories there so translators can start working. If you are interested in having your project included in the new platform, please follow these instructions:
If you still use our old Gitorious repository, please move your projects to Github. Gitorious is considered read-only now. (See
Activity_Team/How_to_migrate_from_Gitorious
for details about how to move projects.)
Update this
Translation_Team/Pootle_Projects/Repositories
wiki page so we can track your project's repository.
Be sure to grant commit access to
sugarlabs-pootle
the Sugar Labs Github Pootle user.
Create a new user on the new translation platform (
translate.sugarlabs.org
).
Please send an email to Martin (CC'ing sugar-devel) with a list of the repositories for your projects so that he can add them to Pootle. Don't forget to specify your user name on the translation platform.
4. The final phase of the run up the the Sugar 0.104 release is testing and bug fixing. Martin has released tarballs for our (UNSTABLE) feature-freeze release, which can be downloaded from:
sugar
sugar-artwork
sugar-datastore
sugar-runner
sugar-toolkit
We welcome all the help you can provide testing and fixing bugs!
Sugar Labs
5. Please visit our
planet