Title: Archive/Current Events/2010-12-15
URL: https://wiki.sugarlabs.org/go/Archive/Current_Events/2010-12-15
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Contents
1
Sugar Digest
1.1
In the community
1.2
Tech Talk
1.3
Sugar Labs
Sugar Digest
Today is Thanksgiving in the US. A time for family and reflection and baking pies (also known as kitchen chemistry).
1. Just a few more days to cast your vote in the Oversight Board election. You should have received a ballot in the mail.
2. Tony Forster continues to add to the
Using Turtle Art with Sensors
page in the wiki. His latest project is a to use sensor input to explore
acceleration on an inclined plane
. So cool.
3. Speaking of Turtle Art, I just released a new version of Turtle Blocks (
v104
) that cleans up a lot of little annoyances, including problems with playback of multimedia objects (
#1613
). With Tony's help and feedback, I also made the process of importing Python code into blocks more streamlined.
4. A group of MIT Sloan students (Alex Fallow, Laura Guaglianone, Julie Lein, and Parul Singh) are conducting a survey about Sugar with the goal of helping us refine our outreach. Please participate (See
Sugar Survey
).
In the community
5. DIGITAL CITIZENSHIP, an international forum on development and social inclusion through the use of ICT in Uruguay will be held on 29th and 30th November 2010 at the Uruguayan Laboratory of Technology (LATU) in Montevideo, Uruguay.
6. I'll also be giving a talk at the Catholic University in Montevideo on Tuesday, 30 November. If you are in the neighborhood, please drop by.
Tech Talk
7. Aleksey Lim, who has recently gotten translation bots running in our most frequented channels on irc.freenode.net has been revamping the web interface(See either
https://chat.sugarlabs.org
or
http://chat.sugarlabs.org
).
Enhancements include:
https for secure chatting
Sugar Labs quick-link toolbar
nickname login field supports keeping history in browsers
list of Sugar-related channels
list of languages for multi-lingual chatting
after logging in, #sugar channel and language may be chosen from tabs bar selectors
For the secure chat, you can download a certificate from
http://www.cacert.org/index.php?id=3
Sugar Labs
Gary Martin has generated a SOM from the past week of discussion on the IAEP mailing list.
2010 Nov 13th-19th (25 emails)
Visit our
planet
for more updates about Sugar and Sugar deployments.