Title: Archive/Current Events/2011-02-04
URL: https://wiki.sugarlabs.org/go/Archive/Current_Events/2011-02-04
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Sugar Digest
1. I have been struggling with my end-of-the-year summary; I have
always been more interested in looking forward than looking
backward. Nonetheless:
The numbers tell some of the story of 2010: we have almost 2 million
users, including 100% of the children of Uruguay; we had almost
5 million downloads from our Activity portal; we released Sugar
versions 0.88 and 0.90. The most telling number is 12, the
age of our youngest contributor.
As Sugar matures, we are entering a new phase, where more of the
activity is in the hands of our user community. While we debated how
best to get teachers engaged, the teachers themselves have started
reaching out to each other and to us. While we debated how best to
mesh our development cycle with the needs of OLPC and the distros, the
deployments put together their own builds, meeting their own needs.
As with any project, we have had some churn. Tomeu Vizoso and
Sebastian Dziallas have moved on to other projects; others are
increasing their engagement: Marco Pesenti Gritti is back. Simon
Schampijer and Sascha Silbe are taking over responsibility for
Glucose; Peter Robinson is the new Sugar-on-a-Stick lead; Tom Gilliard
is advancing our efforts around virtual machine support. We have a
renewed engagement with the OLPC association in Miami, a group
dedicated to the original vision of the project. Activity Central and
Seeta are among the commercial enterprises offering Sugar support. We
have some prolific new activity developers, notably ChristoferR and
Mulawa. I would be remiss in not mentioning the on-going contributions
of Aleksey Lim, who is touching every corner of the project. The Sur
community has increased its activity and presence in the global
community. We have a board member from the South, weekly debates on
pedagogy in Spanish, led by Claudia Urrea, keeping us focused on our
mission. Meanwhile, Gary Martin has taken on the bulk of the design
burden. We'd be no where without the time spent by Daniel Drake and
Bernie Innocenti efforts at deployments. And Bernie and Dogi keep our
infrastructure running. Of course, there are literally 1000s of others
contributing to Sugar development and Sugar deployments. Your efforts
are making a difference.
Other 2010 events of note:
The first Sugar twins: The Sugar community just got larger: Pablo
Flores and Micaela Acosta had twins, Nacieron Facundo and Sasha, born
on 27 December.
The first Sugar couple: Sebastian Silva and Laura Vargas met as
volunteers and were married this fall.
I'll do the "leadership thing" and blog about ‘Here’s what we’re going
to do. Here’s how we’re going to do it. Here’s why we’re going to do
it.’ some time in January. Meanwhile, thank you for the great effort
and great accomplishments of 2010.
Sugar Labs
Gary Martin has generated a SOM from the past few weeks of discussion
on the IAEP mailing list.
2010 Dec 24th-Jan 1st (37 emails)
2010 Dec 18th-24th (16 emails)
2010 Dec 11th-17th (46 emails)
Visit our
planet
for more updates about Sugar and Sugar deployments.