Title: BugSquad/Bug Report
URL: https://wiki.sugarlabs.org/go/BugSquad/Bug_Report
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Team Home
·
Join
·
Contacts
·
Resources
·
FAQ
·
Roadmap
·
To Do
·
Meetings
Contents
1
How to file a ticket
1.1
Log in to GitHub
1.2
Create a summary for the ticket
1.3
Describe the ticket
1.3.1
Attach files
1.4
Categorize the ticket
1.5
Create the ticket
1.6
Follow up
How to file a ticket
If you're using
Sugar on a Stick
or another
distribution of Sugar
and find something specific you think could be improved—maybe something isn't working the way you think it should work, or you have an idea for how something could be better—you can file a
ticket.
A ticket is a way for anyone to suggest to the software or project development community that they should work on something.
Tickets are used by
core developers
,
Activity authors
, organized
testers
, and
anyone
who wants to help the greater effort!
Log in to GitHub
The first thing you'll have to do is log in to GitHub, which Sugar Labs uses as its
ticket system.
[1]
. If you do not have an existing GitHub account, you can create one by visiting
[2]
Create a summary for the ticket
You'll notice that the first text box is for a
Summary
of the ticket. Sometimes the
Summary
is also called the
Title
of the ticket. This is an important part of the ticket—in fact, some people say it is the
most
important part—because reading the title of a ticket is how someone decides if he or she is going to work on it.
Write a ticket summary/title that describes your idea. Try to write it succinctly, so that those reading the title of your ticket will go "oh, I know what I have to work on, and why this is important - I will read more about this ticket and maybe try to fix it."
A good ticket is in many ways like a good newspaper headline.
Good newspaper headlines:
(taken from
http://lwn.net/
as of the day of this writing)
SpamAssassin-milter has a remote root vulnerability
SeaMonkey 1.x goes unsupported
GNOME Foundation and KDE e.V. to Co-Host Conferences in 2011
Bad newspaper headlines:
Today, bad things happened with SpamAssassin
Stuff about SeaMonkey
GNOME and KDE are doing a thing
Similarly...
Good ticket titles:
(taken from
http://bugs.sugarlabs.org
as of the day of this writing)
Frame: Battery icon does not update when battery is removed/replaced
Make "keep aspect ratio" selection visible in the UI
Drop down menus give no indication of their existence, also are too slow to load.
Bad ticket titles:
This frame stuff doesn't work
Make the Paint Activity better
HELP I have a problem!!!
Describe the ticket
This section has not yet been written. If you can help, please write it!
Include specifics on your hardware & software versions, if you know them.
Describe what happens and what you expected to happen.
Include steps to reproduce the situation so others can confirm and investigate your issue.
Embed links to mailing list posts, blogs, videos, or other descriptions of the issue or problem, if appropriate.
Please, please, please cross-reference with links to related tickets, perhaps in
http://dev.laptop.org
.
Attach files
Check the 'I have files to attach to this ticket' box or, on an existing ticket, the [Attach file] button.
See
BugSquad/Get Logs
for how to review and attach log files.
Sometimes screen shots of a problem will help explain it. Pressing <Alt> + 1 in Sugar captures the screen and stores a screen shot in the Journal.
Categorize the ticket
Now that you've finished writing your ticket, it's time to categorize it so that it gets to the right people when you file it. We'll walk through each of the important categorizations in turn.
The first section (highlighted in purple) is the ticket
type.
There are two types of tickets:
defects
and
enhancements.
Defects are things you think are broken. If you can't get something to work, that's a defect, and you should choose the "defect" option. Enhancements are ideas on how to make something that
isn't
broken better - maybe you have an idea for a new feature that will let you do things that you can't do with the software right now. If your ticket is an enhancement, choose the "enhancement" option.
The next sections we need to look at (highlighted in green) are the
component
and
distribution/OS
sections. Tickets specify
components
to tell us which part of the software or project that we should look at, and who might want to look at it. For instance, if we were working on a bicycle, you might report a bug in the "handlebar" component - that way, we know to just look at the handlebar when we're fixing things, and the people who only want to work on tires know they don't have to worry about that problem.
For
Sugar on a Stick
, the component is
SoaS
.
As you file and review bugs, you can help triage bugs by finding duplicates and sharing questions and comments with the reporters and maintainers to help advance the work.
Create the ticket
It's a good idea to preview your ticket before you file it, in order to see what it will look like - click the
Preview
button first.  You may notice formatting or other problems in the description, so take the time to review your submission because once you create the ticket, the original description can't be modified (only the Summary/Title can be changed). You can always add replies and comments that are tracked chronologically along with other field changes.
The last thing you should do is click the green
Subnit New Issue
button.
You're all done for now - congratulations, and thanks for your help!
Follow up
The ticketing system only works if reporters, triagers, maintainers, authors, developers, and the community follow up to clarify the information and work needed and record its status.