Title: Crowd funding/Sugar Network
URL: https://wiki.sugarlabs.org/go/Crowd_funding/Sugar_Network#The_product
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Contents
1
Disclaimer
2
What is this page about
3
The project
3.1
The product
4
Development team
5
Overall progress
6
How to donate
7
Donations
Disclaimer
The content of this page is not legally endorsed by or affiliated with Sugar Labs Inc. This is a private initiative of
people
who take part in the project.
What is this page about
This is a
crowd funding
initiative to support
Sugar Network
development process. It is intended to be an access point for people who want to donate funds to
development team
to continue working on
implementation
.
This page should answer on the following questions:
Who we are?
What we are working on?
How you can help us to continue working?
How to track the overall progress to see if your help is needed?
Why Wiki page?
Wiki page is an intermediate solution until more appropriate model will be found; right now, it will let team working;
Development team is spread world wide (the same for possible donators) and it is not obvious how to handle donations in such case;
We are looking for more sustainable and common model that is being
discussed
on Sugar Labs Oversight Board level.
The project
In short, Sugar Network is a system (software and infrastructure) to let people share different types of content, support collaborative work on that content, do that regardless the Internet connectivity.
To learn more about the Sugar Network, consult the following pages:
Sugar Network
home page,
declaration of purpose
,
technical pages
.
The plan is working on the 1.0 version during the 2012 year. For detailed information see
Harmonic Distribution
Roadmap
and
TODO
pages. To track for intermediate releases, add
release page
to your watch list. To monitor development commits, subscribe to
Gitorious project
's
feed
. To try current development version, follow the
instructions
.
The important note for possible donators, this page is requesting to support development process (literally, writing the code) of community software project which is named
"Sugar Network"'
. At the same time, such systems require downstream deployment work to make it useful for people in the field. Such deployment work is less predictable and rather important for organizations (like education ministries or Sugar distributors) then for personal donators. Look for
Red Azúcar
for details.
The product
Red Azúcar is a downstream solution based on Sugar Network and is intended to be a
"final product"
to bring Sugar Network to people in the field. It is being created within the Sugar Labs Peru By the Research and Development Team "Somos Azúcar". Most of the work is different to Sugar Network development process. In technical aspects, the focus is shifting to deployment rather than development. In non technical aspects, Red Azúcar is taking care about populating Sugar Network content with materials useful for local people, work with educators and state people, etc. Sugar Network developers also take part in Red Azúcar, but obviously, Red Azúcar involves much more people and requires more resources to work on.
Please, consult the following pages if you are looking for a way to support Red Azúcar:
Red Azúcar: Proyecto Piloto Hexoquinasa
Red Azúcar: Proyecto Malla
You can also send a contact request email to malla AT somosazucar.org the Sugar Labs Peru Oversight Board.
Development team
The development team consists of the following people (in alphabetical order):
Aleksey Lim
Got funding.
Location: Russia, Rubtsovsk
Brief intro: see a
short bio
; Sugar Labs contributor since 2008
Role in project: server side and client library
Spend time: full time working on the project
Laura Vargas
Location: Bogotá, Colombia
Brief intro: Research and Development at SomosAZUCAR.Org since 2009
Role in project: UI Designer
Spend time: split time to work on
Red Azúcar
, downstream product
Sebastian Silva
Location: Ancón, Perú
Brief intro: See
member profile
. Sugar Labs contributor since 2008
Role in project: webui client developer
Spend time: split time to work on
Red Azúcar
, downstream product
Overall progress
Sugar Network development process is started since the end of 2011. It will continue being developed until implementing 1.0 version (further development will depend on feedback gotten during the implementation process) in any case. The only thing is how much time developers can spend on implementation. And, here we are looking for your help.
Accepted / Requested
4900$/9000$
The
Requested
sum is calculated from gentle minimal per developer per month, which is ~500$ multiplied by number of developers (3) and number of months remained in 2012. The
Accepted
sum might grow due to reasons like personal sources developers found, donations from this page, or, funding gotten by
Red Azúcar
. The overhead will go to support
Red Azúcar
.
How to donate
Send an email to
alsroot@sugarlabs.org,
laura@somosazucar.org and sebastian@somosazucar.org to get in contact with the team.
Donations
Juan Camilo Lema, 1000$
Aleksey Lim, 1500$
Bernie Innocent, 2400$