Title: Deployment Platform/1.2/Todo
URL: https://wiki.sugarlabs.org/go/Deployment_Platform/1.2/Todo
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
The major tasks:
Gathering statistics,
Server on an XO.
Contents
1
More sugar-server-templates templates
2
Glucose patches
3
Usage statistics
4
Avoid compromised school servers
5
sugar-client
6
Deployment
7
Testing
8
Documentation
9
(?) Mothership
More sugar-server-templates templates
Depending on whether mace configuration will be used in Sugar Server based deployments or not, implement configurations for all needed services:
Content filter. Options are: Dans Guardian (MinD fork?), SquidCache, OpenDNS
Monitoring support. If connectivity is good, then, no question, there are a bunch of ready-to-use solutions like Munin, Nagious, etc. The problematic use case is having servers that are mostly or entirely offline. A solution might be collecting data on school servers and passing them to the mothership somehow via sneakernet. Options: run
http://collectd.org/
daemons on school servers and provide a useful uploading method.
Glucose patches
Provide shell patches to use
Client API
.
Usage statistics
Handle reports and statistics from XOs around a school server, and securely send such to the mothership. This feature might be useful from a pedagogical point of view, e.g., what activity is being used most of all.
Avoid compromised school servers
Switch to HTTPS for sugar-server RESTfull API to check its certificate on sugar-client side to make sure that client is not interacting with a fake server.
sugar-client
Support
OLPC XS school servers.
Deployment
as much as possible a plug&play solution for SSK based school servers
Testing
more system tests of SSK infra using sugaroid to cover various deployment workflows
using sugaroid bots, stress test prosody to compare with ejabberd;
Documentation
in-code documentation for SSK components.
(?) Mothership
Interaction with other motherships
Initial sugar-mothership implementation, regarding only the current sugar-server functionality
Need to collect more experience from XS deployments before any implementation...