Title: Deployment Platform
URL: https://wiki.sugarlabs.org/go/Deployment_Platform/Deployment#Scenarios
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
NOTE:
The content of this page is considered
DEPRECATED and OBSOLETE
It is preserved for historical research, along with its
talk page
.
Deployment Platform
version cycle: |
1.0
|
1.1
|
2.0
|
Contents
1
Summary
2
Deployment scenarios
3
Deployment specific functionality
4
Reference implementations
5
Downstream solutions
6
See also
7
Getting involved
8
Subpages
Summary
A customizable platform based on the Sugar Learning Environment which is intended to be a basis for downstream distributions. The targeting audience for this platform are educational distributors and deployments who might be interested in these features:
A robust content sharing system,
Sugar Network
;
Getting feedback from the field;
Providing remote educational and technical support using Sugar Network's capabilities; which are especially needed in  an offline scenario;
Supporting the offline scenario;
Centralized gathering of usage statistics;
Supporting heterogeneous deployments, i.e., not only XO laptops.
Deployment Platform consists of the following major components:
Base software
Base software is the foundation to start exploring the rest of the system. It will be accessible from
Sweets Distribution
native packages. Repositories of packaged software will be provided for all
supported platforms
and can be used as-is on top of existing operating system, e.g.,
GNU/Linux distribution
for regular desktops, or
OLPC OS
for XO laptops.
Content
This class of software is based on
Sugar Network
, with master services hosted on Sugar Labs resources.  It provides a broad variety of content, such as Sugar activities, artifacts derived from Sugar activities, books, etc., and the community social activity centered around this content. It is the common information forum to embrace all participants. Software provided on this level, in comparison to
Base software
, will be
supported
out of native packages.
Reference distributions
to cover most common
Deployment scenarios
Deployment scenarios are a set of solutions adapting all the previous components in order to support differing Sugar deployment scenarios. For example, "Keep the
LTS
releases for an
Operating System
and its
Base software
", or "Provide tools to sort out
Content
to make it useful for specific deployment needs".
Deployment scenarios
The following list describes common deployment scenarios where Deployment Platform might be useful. The final model might be an intermediate variant of them tuned by third-party distributor for local needs.
Internet server
There is a master server located on the Internet in a highly accessible place for any maintenance work. Users are always connected to the Internet and the master server.
Gateway server
The school server has Internet connectivity and serves it into the local network where it can be used by clients. Users are always connected to their school server via the Intranet.
Offline server
When the school server itself and clients it serves are in an Internet-less environment with only one way to be synchronized with the outer world,
sneakernet
.
Deployment specific functionality
The following features were designed especially for deployment workflow.
Common client side
configuration
for all Deployment Platform components;
Deployment specific improvements of the Sugar Shell:
Shell
plugins
,
blacklist
Shell components;
Collecting
usage statistics
of Sugar users;
Lightweight
package management
to process system updates and extra dependencies installation on XO laptops.
Reference implementations
These are reference implementations of distributions based on Deployment Platform. These implementations might be used as a template for downstream solutions.
XO distribution
Reference desktop distribution for OLPC XO laptops.
Ubuntu desktop distribution
Reference desktop distribution for workstations on Ubuntu or its derivates.
Debian server distribution
Reference school server distribution for servers on Debian, Ubuntu or its derivates.
Downstream solutions
The
Hexoquinasa
project created by Peruvian community to support Sugar Learning Platform deployments.
See also
Announcement
email thread
.
Getting involved
Subscribe to the
sugar-devel
mailing list and email with the subject prefixed with
[PLATFORM]
.
Ask your question on IRC channels,
#sugar
(not logged) or
#sugar-newbies
(logged).
Subpages
Deployment Platform/1.0
Deployment Platform/1.0/Notes
Deployment Platform/1.0/Roadmap
Deployment Platform/1.0/Testing
Deployment Platform/1.0/Todo
Deployment Platform/1.1
Deployment Platform/1.1/Notes
Deployment Platform/1.1/Roadmap
Deployment Platform/1.1/Todo
Deployment Platform/1.2
Deployment Platform/1.2/Todo
Deployment Platform/1.3
Deployment Platform/1.3/Todo
Deployment Platform/2.0
Deployment Platform/Blacklist Shell Components
Deployment Platform/Client Configuration
Deployment Platform/Declaration of purpose
Deployment Platform/Deployment
Deployment Platform/Deployment scenarios
Deployment Platform/Factory
Deployment Platform/Feedback
Deployment Platform/Gateway
Deployment Platform/Internet
Deployment Platform/Package Management on XO
Deployment Platform/Shell Plugins
Deployment Platform/Sneakernet
Deployment Platform/Sneakernet/Packets format
Deployment Platform/Software
Deployment Platform/Supported platforms
Deployment Platform/XO reference distribution