Title: Design Team/Activity Touch Input
URL: https://wiki.sugarlabs.org/go/Design_Team/Activity_Touch_Input
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Contents
1
Abacus
2
Browse
3
Calculate
4
Chat
5
Chart
6
Clock
7
Conozco Uruguay/I Know Countries
8
Dimensions
9
Distance
10
Escribir Especial
11
Etoys
12
Falabracman
13
Finance
14
Flipsticks
15
FotoToon
16
Get Books
17
Geogebra
18
HelloWorld
19
Help
20
Image Viewer
21
Implode
22
Infoslicer
23
Jukebox
24
Labyrinth
25
Listen and Spell
26
Log
27
Maze
28
Measure
29
Memorize
30
Moon
31
Paint
32
Physics
33
Pippy
34
Portfolio
35
Pukllanapac
36
Read
37
Record
38
Ruler
39
Scratch
40
Speak
41
Spirolaterals
42
StopWatch
43
TamTamEdit
44
TamTamJam
45
TamTamMini
46
TamTamSynthLab
47
Terminal
48
TetrisMat2
49
Turtle Art
50
Turtle Confusion
51
Typing Turtle
52
WikipediaEN/ES
53
Words
54
Write
Abacus
Show live dragging feedback of abacus beads, not just updating the canvas when you release.
Yeah. Easy enough. I was just lazy. --Walter
For the custom abacus toolbar, spin button widgets are too fiddly to use due to the very small inc/dec arrows (should try to solve in system wide theme or depreciate use of this widget in activities)
Some of these could be replaced by stretching or squeezing different parts of the abacus frame: to add more rods, upper or lower beads. I think for the numeric values, such as base and multiplication factor, I'll need some big buttons. --Walter
Show abacus type name on the main canvas
Also easy enough... stay tuned. --Walter
Browse
Touch and hold to trigger right click palette (for links, downloading, copy etc)
Exit fullscreen icon in top right corner does not exit fullscreen when touched (only left clicked)
Calculate
Prevent auto expose of on screen keyboard for calculation entry widget and rely on canvas and toolbar buttons
Manual reveal of keyboard for some more advanced actions
Cursor left/right canvas buttons
Backspace canvas button
Scientific vs. Basic canvas display toggle (not essential but would improve touch experience)
Major toolbar reword/reduction
Most functions get canvas buttons in scientific mode
New implementation of help
Chat
Left clicking or tapping the Activity icon should imediately display its palette, currently it only displays via cursor loiter and clicking actually prevents it from opening. This behaviour should be fixed for all basic toolbar activity designs
Input area is at canvas bottom edge, with text appearing at the canvas top, need to detect OSK and layout canvas so input is still visible while keeping text visible (e.g. if there is still blank space don't scroll actual text content off screen)
Chart
Swipe right/left to change the chart type
Two finger pinch gesture for canvas zoom in and out
One finger drag to scroll around zoomed in chart
Clock
Dragging of clock hands feature should be landed to improve interaction possibilities (redraw performance needs work)
Conozco Uruguay/I Know Countries
Larger map size to allow distinguishing/easier touch for maps with some small countries
^ Pinch to zoom
Allow one finger drag around screen that highlights potential countries without selecting the country until finger lifted
Dimensions
Drag cards (Done in v41)
Distance
Configure toolbar settings for Temperature and Humidity are currently numerical input fields, should be migrated to spin buttons (pick up new touch friendly design versions)
A click or touch of the toolbar Activity icon should instantly show the palette with the Activity name in (all activities should behave like this hen using the basic toolbar design)
Escribir Especial
Resize onscreen keyboard: make smaller and move to bottom of screen for more traditional "text above keyboard" layout
Cleaner keyboard layout - implement similar to iOS method for special characters (ex. accents/tildes): hold key to show additional related characters
Etoys
Requires close work with upstream, tickets can be filed against the
etoys-touch
component for future work (no resources available at present)
An experimental
iPad version
supporting multi-touch input available is for testers
Adding the same "gripper" feature as in TurtleArt could be helpful for bricks rearrangement
Falabracman
Draggable joystick to play
Alternate mode: touch letters (speed mode?) to spell
Finance
The 'goto now' toolbar button should only be active when you change away from the current time, Icon should be between the Next/Previous icons (and perhaps be a little lest abstract of a design)
Flipsticks
Touch support exists?
Larger menus for touch support
Dots used to represent joints should be larger
FotoToon
Save as Image should raise a confirmation alert to provide user feedback that a Journal entry was created
[DONE in v 12]
Resize widgets for all bubbles need to be much larger and visible
[DONE in v 12, no sure about usability, used SIZE_GRID / 2]
Bubble arrow (for spike or thought target) marker needs to be much larger and more visible
[DONE in v 12, no sure about usability, used SIZE_GRID / 2]
Get Books
Combo box for selecting the archive source should fully open rather than making the user scroll navigate to see the three entries
Geogebra
Pinch gesture to resize shapes once placed
Retool menu - icons need to be larger and more well organized
HelloWorld
A click or touch of the toolbar Activity icon should instantly show the palette with the Activity name in (all activities should behave like this hen using the basic toolbar design)
Help
Need to re-evaluate once the webkit port is running
[Ported in Help v14]
Image Viewer
Two finger pinch gesture for canvas zoom in and out
One finger drag to scroll around large (or zoomed in) image
Double tap to toggle between 'Fit to window' & 'Original size'
Two finger rotate gesture to trigger canvas clockwise/anti-clockwise rotation (user needs to rotate past N degrees and release before 90ยบ rotate action triggered)
Don't need to draw image manipulation in real time if not responsive enough, could use a simple grey checkerboard redraw for live touch feedback.
Implode
Tapping Easy/Medium/Hard should auto start a new game at that level of difficulty
Infoslicer
Jukebox
A click or touch of the toolbar Activity icon should instantly show the palette with the Activity name in (all activities should behave like this hen using the basic toolbar design)
[Jukebox 24 have a standard toolbar]
Labyrinth
Canvas zooming in/out with pinch gesture
Canvas scrolling when dragging canvas (replace current behaviour of creating a node of a specific size, rely on single tap to create a node)
Canvas zooming in when double tap on specific node
Listen and Spell
Could use an international keyboard. Would be interesting if switched languages based on keyboard language selected.
Controls and sliders too closely spaced
Log
Log Collector palette should open on single touch / left click (currently uses hover loiter only)
Log Collector needs a better icon, a bug with glasses or a magnifying glass?
Copy tool button should only be active if a text selection is made
Vertical view split needs larger hit target UI (system wide theme solution needed)
List disclosure triangles are too small, allow touching anywhere in directory name text to open/close the node (might need a system theme solution for tree view)
Maze
Need to hide the fake Sugar pointer cursor when using touch events
Measure
Memorize
General issues with combo box, will need to pickup new touch friendly gtk combo theme once available
Toggling back and forth between Edit and Play mode has 1-2sec of seconds delay with a simple example quiz loaded, some user feedback would help (a spinner?) if the latency can't be reduced.
Moon
Some new enhancements would make the activity more useful/interactive
Add a database of surface features and landings, allow touch/click to reveal name and information
Display longitude and latitude of point clicked/touched
Paint
Single finger press and drag to create, size, and rotate shape tools (works fine with mouse events but John pointed out it needs work for the new F17 touch events)
Single finger drag for Selecting an area (only working for mouse events)
Single finger dragging a selection (only working for mouse events)
Eraser tool default size should be _much_ larger
Ability to draw with more than one finger at a time (e.g. multi-touch for Brush, Eraser, Stamp tools), need to confirm how many touches we can support to make this a worth while addition.
Clicking Select Area should clear the current selection if present
Brush properties palette, gtk spin button widget for brush size much too fiddly to use, perhaps replace with a slider between 1 and 100?
Consider changing Brush properties Keep aspect to a
gtk switch
, or remove it (this feature just locks the aspect ratio of the selection tool so it is square, not sure it is really needed)
Physics
Can the current code support multiple interaction points?
Probable F17 build related
#3361
crash bug for the Grab tool
Grab tool not responding to touch interaction
#3749
(other tools working fine with touch events)
Pinch/finger spread to resize shapes?
Pippy
Portfolio
Pukllanapac
Dynamic dragging for tile rearrangment - while shuffling other tiles dynamically
Two-finger turn to rotate? Or hold down to rotate
Read
Vertical scrolling solution
Page turning swipe gesture for paginatable documents
Record
Ruler
No specific touch issues
Touch enhancement would be to allow touching/dragging on the various rulers to have the exact numerical value displayed next to the above your finger/cursor
Scratch
Enlarge brick size for easier dragging
Touch enhancement to allow for dragging individual bricks (rather than threads attached to that brick below) would be helpful
Speak
Needs work to re-layout when on screen keyboard is used so that the text input area is visible as well as the animated face
Some combo button issues, should pick up new touch friendly combo theme once available
touch dragging around the face should have the eyes continuously follow your finger (you can double tap, but they just look at the double tap coordinate)
Addition of international keyboards and speaking language change based on international keyboard selection would be useful
Spirolaterals
Allow finger dragging around screen to touch buttons/explore (not just direct tap)
StopWatch
Tapping a text field should auto select the current text by default to allow easy replacing (rather than having to press delete many times before typing something new)
TamTamEdit
Requires most design and implementation work to be usable in a touch environment
Piano roll note
Notes are much too small to manipulate via a finger touch
Notes don't respond to drag touch events so notes can be selected but not moved
Too easy to click on the canvas and selecting whole tracks for modification
Pinch zoom metaphor to increase vertical scale?
Start with only one ore two instrument tracks, scale UI only as more instruments/tracks are added?
No current way to record from playing the physical keyboard?
Possibly a broken feature (there is a Record Keyboard feature but seems inoperative)
If this feature is intended to work a virtual piano keyboard will also be necessary as per the other TamTam activities (canvas vertical zoom/panning certainly needed if we add a virtual keyboard)
TamTamJam
Visual UI limited to activating pre-made loops, no jamming available without a visual keyboard
Current loop widgets do not respond to touch events, only mouse clicks and physical keyboard short cuts (you can switch them off with a touch, but not on)
Possible full width, horizontal keyboard widget at bottom edge of screen (standardise widget across TamTam activities as noted in TamTamSynthLab)
TamTamMini
Visual UI limited to playing single note of each instrument
Possible full width, horizontal keyboard widget at bottom edge of screen (standardise widget across TamTam activities as noted above in TamTamSynthLab)
TamTamMini is currently very cluttered (and already requires the user to scroll), space is tight and needs some reorganisation fit in a keyboard as well
Switch to standard Primary Toolbar layout
This may help save space on the main canvas by moving the filters (animals/concrete/keyboard/people/percussion/strings/wind) into the primary toolbar (TODO: new Sugar toolbar icon designs needed for these)
TamTamSynthLab
No current visible UI for playing notes
Possible full width, horizontal keyboard widget at bottom edge of screen (standardise widget across TamTam activities)
Keyboard should support octave scrolling
Should support lock/unlock keys for creating chords
Key note letter show/hide (localised)
Keys should visible change when pressed
Keys should visible change if physical keyboard buttons are pressed (i.e. keyboard can provide visual feedback for users without touch screen compatible hardware)
Linking modules not currently possible via touch
Input/output connectors very small hit targets and obscured by finger
Input/output connectors don't currently respond to touch events
As UI is limited to 4 module instance of each type (13 icons max on canvas), increasing their on-screen size is one less invasive option (TODO: mock up)
Pinch and zoom gestures could be used to zoom in/out of the canvas allowing the user to work as large as they like, here's a video
example
from Nathaniel LeCaude
Otherwise, SynthLab is in pretty good shape for touch inteface usage
Bug: Text hints don't update when selecting modules on main canvas (only appear/update if you change modules using the combo in the slider details view)
Terminal
Add warning confirmation alert strip to 'Become root' button to provide feedback
The "Become root" button was already removed. See bugs
SL#3689
SL#2756
and
SL#2697
. --danielf
Will require a close to full feature on screen keyboard with modifiers and unusual characters
Update tab design as per Browse to provide larger hit targets.
Done. See
SL#3354
for the last commit. And commit
2a3addb3
. --danielf
Drag scrolling
More accurate text selection (system wide solution needed for touch)
Drag scrolling through console history
TetrisMat2
Touch to select cells
Drag cells to rearrange
Turtle Art
Canvas zooming in/out with pinch gesture
Right now, there is no canvas zooming at all... just block zooming. --Walter
Canvas scrolling when dragging canvas
Will add to v138 (See commit at
[1]
). --Walter
Performance on XO hardware was not great. Might make sense when in tablet mode only.
Default to large blocks when used on a touch device to reduce obscuring effect of fingers & improve hit target. Perhaps extend the block shapes to have an otherwise blank  'gripper/ridged' area to the left or right
What is the purpose of the gripper? --Walter'
To allow a fat finger to easily drag a block about without obscuring its content and top edge for snapping onto other blocks --Gary
Got it. It could be something that only appears on a touch-enabled machine (or when the XO is in tablet mode). I'll sketch something up. --Walter
Portrait orientation clips too many toolbar icons (expect portrait orientation to be used much more frequently on tablet devices)
As of v137, there is a scroll mechanism for clipped palettes... --Walter
Toolbar hover hints clobbering view of block palettes (due to touch activation leaving pointer over toolbar buttons )
These can be turned off and could be by default. --Walter
Allow escaping from full screen mode (see Read for improved behaviour)
All Save as/Export options should raise a confirmation alert to provide user feedback of Journal entry creation.
Will add to v138 (See commit at
[2]
). --Walter
Tapping a block tile or stack does not auto run it
What is the difference between a tap and a click? (I added some code for XO3 to try to disambiguate between a tap and a small drag used in repositioning a block... may need revisiting) --Walter
Not sure from an implementation perspective, just an observation of the current behaviour in TA, I can click a block/stack to auto run, but a tap and release (many careful attempts) of the same block/stack had no effect. --Gary
Turtle Confusion
Would benefit from re-design based on Etoys application
Could use similar "grabber" function for brick rearrangement like in TurtleArt
Needs separate gesture to move single brick vs. all bricks attached to that brick
Typing Turtle
WikipediaEN/ES
Need to re-evaluate once the webkit port is running
[Already available v33.5]
Words
No specific touch issues
Write