Title: Development Team/Manual
URL: https://wiki.sugarlabs.org/go/Development_Team/Manual
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Note
This page was imported from the OLPC wiki. See
OLPC:Developers manual
.
This is a quick intro to working on activities for the XO, and other code for OLPC.  Feel free to add to and update the manual; it is a work in progress.
This manual tries to provide you with the answers you need to get started either by contributing to existing projects or starting your own.  Although it focuses on the software development side of the process, we are also very interested in encouraging
Getting_Involved
.
Overview
Development Team/Manual/Setup
Describes how to set up a Sugar development environment on your PC or workstation.  It discusses emulation, running Sugar OS natively or in a virtual machine, cross compiling, and some configuration options.  It also includes a discussion of which approach is likely to be the most appropriate for you
Test Config Notes
If you have an XO, this page has many useful configuration tips for testing your application.
Developers/Stack
Describes the choices of programming languages and "software stacks" for developing code on the OLPC.  It details the base stack of hardware, firmware, operating system and the Sugar environment.  It then gives options for programming in Python, Squeak, C/C++ and other languages or activities.
Developers/Issues
Describes the special considerations required for working on the OLPC project, particularly those driven by our target hardware and deployment environments
Developers/Projects
Suggests ways to choose a particular project, whether one that already exists, or one of your own, and how to start working on the project once you have chosen it
Developers/Communication
Describes the various support and communications channels used by the project, including how to get help with problems, and how to set up your own per-project communications channels
Developers/Documentation
Collects pointers to the various sources of documentation available for the project.  Helping us better document our code is always a welcome contribution.
Development Team/FAQ
Collects and attempts to answer common questions that developers have when working on the Sugar platform
Related docs and manuals
PyGTK/Hello World Tutorial
Beyond Hello World
Simplified users guide
Getting Started
Activity Handbook
-- a somewhat slower, more detailed tutorial-style presentation, assumes less knowledge of the project's background
Application Development for the OLPC Laptop
(Tim Jones of IBM)
Instructions for getting a Developer Key