Title: Education Team/Creating textbooks
URL: https://wiki.sugarlabs.org/go/Education_Team/Creating_textbooks
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
News: Sugar Labs is setting up a
Replacing Textbooks
project now.
We know we have to create a new generation of electronic replacements for textbooks, but until now, nobody has stepped up. People tell me that this is in part because they don't see how to get past print publishers, teachers' unions, and Ministries of Education to get the new materials into use. But there is a sneaky way to do it. We just give them away for free, and completely bypass the established bureaucratic textbook acquisition process with all of its expenses, delays, and compromises. This will also liberate 47 US states from the domination of the textbook market by California, New York, and Texas.
It turns out that there are serious opportunities for funding of such projects.
Mokurai
is working with the Bartholomew Consolidated School Corporation in Columbus, Indiana. BCSC had a plan in place to replace textbooks with netbooks and digital media. They and Mokurai are discussing funding possibilities, including the tens of billions of dollars on offer from the US Department of Education.
Contents
1
Partners
2
Principles
3
Business Model
4
Tasks
5
Resources
6
See Also
Partners
Earth Treasury
has initiated a project to create interactive digital textbooks with the following potential partners. We have top level agreement in principle from the organizations marked
agreed
, and are waiting to hear from the others at the official level.
Alan Kay
's
Viewpoints Research Institute
agreed
Smalltalk/Squeak/Etoys, teaching methods
The
Doug Engelbart Institute
at
SRI
agreed
Augmenting Collective Intelligence
Creative Commons
ccLearn
program
agreed
Ahrash Bissell; Licensing, content
Groklaw
agreed
PJ; legal rights
FLOSS Manuals
agreed
Adam Hyde; book sprint methodology
The Tech Museum of Innovation
agreed
Peter Friess, Robert Stephenson; Model classroom exhibit for the public and visiting school classes to try out.
Fantsuam Foundation
agreed
John Dada; various educational and economic initiatives in Nigeria
University of Education, Winneba
, Ghana
agreed by faculty member; waiting
Kafui Prebbie; Partner with Ghanaian government on XO project
Minciu Sodas
agreed
Andrius Kulikauskus; Laboratory for Independent Thinkers
Possible
Sugar Labs
waiting
Walter Bender; Sugar. Wants to see our first round of textbooks before committing to anything.
OLPC
waiting
Nicholas Negroponte; XO
Open Learning Exchange
waiting
Richard Rowe; business plan for education support in every developing country
OLE Nepal
waiting
Bryan Berry; needs 10,000 learning modules
OneVillage Foundation
waiting
Joy Tang; Open Digital Village
We have many more potential partners in mind.
Principles
We all agree in principle that we want to do it. Now we have to hold some meetings and online discussions to determine who wants to do what, and create a business plan, some White Papers, and a draft Statement of Work.
Our guiding principles (with key sources) include
Interactive software integrated into "textbooks" (Omar Khayyam Moore, Ken Iverson, Stephen Wolfram, others)
Textbooks integrated into curricula (Well, duh, but they never did in Computer Literacy)
Intellectual honesty (Jerome Bruner, Richard Feynman)
Age-appropriate learning (Jean Piaget, Maria Montessori)
Deep understanding (Marvin Minsky)
Powerful ideas (Seymour Papert)
Mastery learning (Alan Kay)
Augmenting Collective Intelligence, Bootstrapping, Dogfooding (Doug Engelbart)
Whatever is needed, not We Have Always Done It This Way (Robert Townsend, Frank Borman)
Freedom (Richard Stallman)
Continuous Improvement (W. Edwards Deming)
Business Model
Much of the work will be done by volunteer authors scratching an itch, as usual, but we will offer a deal to Ministries of Education and to aid organizations, to write any urgently-needed textbooks on contract. All books containing software to be GPLed. We will also work with educational research institution on testing and improving our work.
Tasks
Survey of curricula worldwide
Survey of topics and subject-matter experts
Catalog of best practices
Bootstrap from the FLOSS Manuals Book Sprint methodology and current best practices to build continuously better and faster methods
Organize a research program
Choose demonstration projects
You tell me--
Mokurai
01:11, 16 December 2008 (UTC)
Resources
WikiEducator
TeachingOpenSource.org
The Librarian Chick
California Free Digital Textbook Initiative
See Also
Curriculum Standards
Textbook Replacement Projects