Title: Features/Tags in Journal
URL: https://wiki.sugarlabs.org/go/Features/Tags_in_Journal
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Contents
1
Summary
2
Owner
3
Current status
4
Detailed Description
5
Benefit to Sugar
6
Scope
7
How To Test
8
User Experience
9
Dependencies
10
Contingency Plan
11
Documentation
11.1
Related features
12
Release Notes
13
Comments and Discussion
Summary
Support tags in Journal.
Owner
Name:
Aleksey Lim
Email:
send an email
Current status
Targeted release: 0.86
Last updated: Fri Jul 17 06:34:13 UTC 2009
Percentage of completion: stopped, highly depends on
Features/Plain Query Format
Detailed Description
Add tags feature to Datastore
Add tags auto completion while editing
tags
metadata field
Implement tags related features from
Design Team/Proposals/Journal
proposal
Benefit to Sugar
Simpler way to use tags in Journal.
Scope
depends on
Features/Plain Query Format
new out parameter for Datastore find() method to get related tags after querying; if request was empty (search for all objects) find() returns original set of tags
Tags widgets from sugar-toolkit; Kartik Rustagi (widget from the tagging work in the mesh)?
Support tags in Journal
How To Test
This does not need to be a full-fledged document.  Describe the dimensions of tests that this feature is expected to pass when it is done.  If it needs to be tested with different hardware or software configurations, indicate them.  The more specific you can be, the better the community testing can be.
Remember that you are writing this how to for interested testers to use to check out your feature - documenting what you do for testing is OK, but it's much better to document what *I* can do to test your feature.
A good "how to test" should answer these four questions:
What special hardware / data / etc. is needed (if any)?
How do I prepare my system to test this feature? What packages need to be installed, config files edited, etc.?
What specific actions do I perform to check that the feature is working like it's supposed to?
What are the expected results of those actions?
User Experience
If this feature is noticeable by its target audience, how will their experiences change as a result?  Describe what they will see or notice.
Dependencies
Just regular glucose dependencies.
Contingency Plan
None necessary, revert to previous release behaviour.
Documentation
Features/Plain Query Format
Design Team/Proposals/Journal
Related features
Features/Journal data tagged private or public
Features/Activity specific metadata in Journal
(data model)
Release Notes
The Sugar Release Notes inform end-users about what is new in the release. An Example is
0.84/Notes
. The release notes also help users know how to deal with platform changes such as ABIs/APIs, configuration or data file formats, or upgrade concerns.  If there are any such changes involved in this feature, indicate them here.  You can also link to upstream documentation if it satisfies this need.  This information forms the basis of the release notes edited by the release team and shipped with the release.
Comments and Discussion
See
discussion tab for this feature