Title: Features/Bug Report
URL: https://wiki.sugarlabs.org/go/Features/Bug_Report
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Contents
1
Summary
2
Owner
3
Current status
4
Detailed Description
5
Benefit to Sugar
6
Scope
7
How To Test
8
User Experience
9
Dependencies
10
Contingency Plan
11
Documentation
12
Release Notes
13
Comments and Discussion
Summary
Provide simple, one-click way for non-technical users to enable debug mode (export proper environment variables) and send logs from ~/sugar/default/logs to the Sugar Labs infrastructure.
Owner
This should link to your home wiki page so we know who you are
Name:
Your Name
Include you email address that you can be reached should people want to contact you about helping with your feature, status is requested, or technical issues need to be resolved
Email: <your email address so we can contact you, invite you to meetings, etc.>
Current status
Targeted release: (SUGAR_VERSION)
Last updated: (DATE)
Percentage of completion: XX%
Detailed Description
It could be useful to provide as simple as possible method for non-tech users, i.e., sugar could send info to predefined server instead of asking questions.
This functionality should be kept out of the way of regular usage paths. It will be of no use to the majority of our users (young children, most unable to speak more than very basic English, often completely lacking connectivity). One approach might be to implement a script similar to olpc-log, which made a tarball of all the important logs for the purpose of being sent along with bug reports. -
DanielDrake
16:07, 17 August 2009 (UTC)
Benefit to Sugar
Easy way which lets user provide full debug info after encountering a bug.
Scope
What work do the developers have to accomplish to complete the feature in time for release?  Is it a large change affecting many parts of the distribution or is it a very isolated change? What are those changes?
How To Test
This does not need to be a full-fledged document.  Describe the dimensions of tests that this feature is expected to pass when it is done.  If it needs to be tested with different hardware or software configurations, indicate them.  The more specific you can be, the better the community testing can be.
Remember that you are writing this how to for interested testers to use to check out your feature - documenting what you do for testing is OK, but it's much better to document what *I* can do to test your feature.
A good "how to test" should answer these four questions:
What special hardware / data / etc. is needed (if any)?
How do I prepare my system to test this feature? What packages need to be installed, config files edited, etc.?
What specific actions do I perform to check that the feature is working like it's supposed to?
What are the expected results of those actions?
User Experience
One possibility is to have the user use this feature through the "?" help activity. We need to update that to be more useful and more general so its possible this might be a good home for that UI - Caroline
If this feature is noticeable by its target audience, how will their experiences change as a result?  Describe what they will see or notice.
Dependencies
What other packages (RPMs) depend on this package?  Are there changes outside the developers' control on which completion of this feature depends?  In other words, completion of another feature owned by someone else and might cause you to not be able to finish on time or that you would need to coordinate?  Other upstream projects like python?
Contingency Plan
If you cannot complete your feature by the final development freeze, what is the backup plan?  This might be as simple as "None necessary, revert to previous release behaviour."  Or it might not.  If your feature is not completed in time, we want to assure others that other parts of Sugar will not be in jeopardy.
Documentation
#117
#340
Release Notes
The Sugar Release Notes inform end-users about what is new in the release. An Example is
0.84/Notes
. The release notes also help users know how to deal with platform changes such as ABIs/APIs, configuration or data file formats, or upgrade concerns.  If there are any such changes involved in this feature, indicate them here.  You can also link to upstream documentation if it satisfies this need.  This information forms the basis of the release notes edited by the release team and shipped with the release.
Comments and Discussion
See
discussion tab for this feature
You can add categories to tie features back to real deployments/schools requesting them, for example [[Category:Features requested by School Xyz]]