Title: Features/About
URL: https://wiki.sugarlabs.org/go/Features/About
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Contents
1
Summary
2
Owner
3
Current status
4
Detailed Description
5
Benefit to Sugar
6
Scope
7
How To Test
8
User Experience
9
Dependencies
10
Contingency Plan
11
Documentation
12
Release Notes
13
Comments and Discussion
Summary
Provide simple way for users to view the license and other information about a Sugar activity.
Owner
Name:
Walter Bender
Email: <walter AT sl.o>
Current status
Targeted release: (0.92)
Last updated: (2 January 2011)
Percentage of completion: 0%
Detailed Description
It would be useful to provide a mechanism for viewing the license and other metadata associated with an activity. The proposal is to add an additional menu item, 'About', to the icon on the Frame that is associated with an instance of an activity. Selecting this menu item would result in the display of the license and perhaps some fields, such as author, activity home page, etc.
Benefit to Sugar
Scope
Should be a modest effort.
How To Test
Remember that you are writing this how to for interested testers to use to check out your feature - documenting what you do for testing is OK, but it's much better to document what *I* can do to test your feature.
A good "how to test" should answer these four questions:
What special hardware / data / etc. is needed (if any)?
How do I prepare my system to test this feature? What packages need to be installed, config files edited, etc.?
What specific actions do I perform to check that the feature is working like it's supposed to?
What are the expected results of those actions?
User Experience
Dependencies
What other packages (RPMs) depend on this package?  Are there changes outside the developers' control on which completion of this feature depends?  In other words, completion of another feature owned by someone else and might cause you to not be able to finish on time or that you would need to coordinate?  Other upstream projects like python?
Contingency Plan
If you cannot complete your feature by the final development freeze, what is the backup plan?  This might be as simple as "None necessary, revert to previous release behaviour."  Or it might not.  If your feature is not completed in time, we want to assure others that other parts of Sugar will not be in jeopardy.
Documentation
Release Notes
The Sugar Release Notes inform end-users about what is new in the release. An Example is
0.84/Notes
. The release notes also help users know how to deal with platform changes such as ABIs/APIs, configuration or data file formats, or upgrade concerns.  If there are any such changes involved in this feature, indicate them here.  You can also link to upstream documentation if it satisfies this need.  This information forms the basis of the release notes edited by the release team and shipped with the release.
Comments and Discussion
See
discussion tab for this feature
You can add categories to tie features back to real deployments/schools requesting them, for example [[Category:Features requested by School Xyz]]