Title: Features/Parental controls
URL: https://wiki.sugarlabs.org/go/Features/Parental_controls
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Contents
1
The proposal
2
Default or optional feature
3
Demand
4
Education case
5
Effectiveness
6
Unintended consequences
The proposal
Technical introduction:
http://www.mail-archive.com/sugar-devel@lists.sugarlabs.org/msg37248.html
Social design discussion
http://www.mail-archive.com/sugar-devel@lists.sugarlabs.org/msg37262.html
Default or optional feature
It is proposed that this be included in XO and SoaS builds. Deployments and others would be free to create customised builds which included or excluded this feature. Would the default builds published by Sugar Labs include the feature?
Demand
"Not only am I basing this on the inclusion of a similar feature in OS X, I am also basing this on the fact that some Nigerian children reportedly visited a Web site containing pornography." (Ryan)
How often would this feature be used? How do we estimate this?
Education case
Does this feature enhance or detract from Sugar's effectiveness for facilitating learning.
A central principle of OLPC and Sugar is that children should be creators rather than consumers. This has been facilitated in a number of ways, show source, cloning Activities, easy reflashing of the OS. These features also make it easier to circumvent controls.
Effectiveness
Any kind of lock will fail to block a proportion of illegitimate uses while blocking a proportion of legitimate uses.
There are a number of potential ways to circumvent parental controls
switching to GNOME
using Pippy to create a browser
using Turtle Blocks to create a browser
using Develop to create a browser
cloning an Activity
installing another browser Activity
installing Browse with an altered name
reflashing with a different build
Unintended consequences
Would there be unintended losses in functionality?
legitimate browsing, e.g., researching breast cancer
switching to GNOME
launching non Sugar activities from Terminal, e.g., the Arduino IDE
Pippy
Turtle Blocks
Develop
cloning an Activity
(re)installing Activities
reflashing with a different build