Title: Features/Feature Template
URL: https://wiki.sugarlabs.org/go/Features/Feature_Template
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Comments and Explanations:
There are comments (
in italics
) providing guidance to fill out each section, see also the
Feature Policy Page
for a more detailed explanation of the new-feature process.
Copy the source to a
new page
named Features/
Your Feature Name
before making changes!  DO NOT EDIT THIS TEMPLATE.
Contents
1
Summary
2
Owner
3
Current status
4
Detailed Description
5
Benefit to Sugar
6
Scope
7
UI Design
8
How To Test
9
User Experience
10
Dependencies
11
Contingency Plan
12
Documentation
13
Release Notes
14
Comments and Discussion
Summary
A sentence or two summarizing what this feature is and what it will do. This information is used for the overall feature summary page for each release.
Owner
This should link to your home wiki page so we know who you are
Name:
Your Name
Include you email address that you can be reached should people want to contact you about helping with your feature, status is requested, or technical issues need to be resolved
Email: <your email address so we can contact you, invite you to meetings, etc.>
Current status
Targeted release: (SUGAR_VERSION)
Last updated: (DATE)
Percentage of completion: XX%
Detailed Description
Expand on the summary, if appropriate.  A couple of sentences suffices to explain the goal, but the more details you can provide the better.
Benefit to Sugar
What is the benefit to the platform?  If this is a major capability update, what has changed?  If this is a new feature, what capabilities does it bring? Why will Sugar become a better platform or project because of this feature?
Make sure to note here as well if this feature has been requested by a specific deployment, or if it has emerged from a bug report.
Scope
What work do the developers have to accomplish to complete the feature in time for release?  Is it a large change affecting many parts of the distribution or is it a very isolated change? What are those changes?
UI Design
Does the feature have a direct impact on the work flow, or does it need a UI? Link here mockups, or add detailed descriptions.
How To Test
Features/Feature Template/Testing
This does not need to be a full-fledged document.  Describe the dimensions of tests that this feature is expected to pass when it is done.  If it needs to be tested with different hardware or software configurations, indicate them.  The more specific you can be, the better the community testing can be.
Remember that you are writing this how to for interested testers to use to check out your feature - documenting what you do for testing is OK, but it's much better to document what *I* can do to test your feature.
A good "how to test" should answer these four questions:
What special hardware / data / etc. is needed (if any)?
How do I prepare my system to test this feature? What packages need to be installed, config files edited, etc.?
What specific actions do I perform to check that the feature is working like it's supposed to?
What are the expected results of those actions?
User Experience
If this feature is noticeable by its target audience, how will their experiences change as a result?  Describe what they will see or notice.
Dependencies
What other packages (RPMs) depend on this package?  Are there changes outside the developers' control on which completion of this feature depends?  In other words, does your feature depend on completion of another feature owned by someone else or that you would need to coordinate, which might cause you to be unable to finish on time?  Other upstream projects like Python?
Contingency Plan
If you cannot complete your feature by the final development freeze, what is the backup plan?  This might be as simple as "None necessary, revert to previous release behaviour."  Or it might not.  If your feature is not completed in time, we want to assure others that other parts of Sugar will not be in jeopardy.
Documentation
Is there upstream documentation on this feature, or notes you have written yourself?  Has this topic been discussed in the mailing list or during a meeting? Link to that material here so other interested developers can get involved.
Release Notes
The Sugar Release Notes inform end-users about what is new in the release. An Example is
0.84/Notes
. The release notes also help users know how to deal with platform changes such as ABIs/APIs, configuration or data file formats, or upgrade concerns.  If there are any such changes involved in this feature, indicate them here.  You can also link to upstream documentation if it satisfies this need.  This information forms the basis of the release notes edited by the release team and shipped with the release.
Comments and Discussion
Link to the discussion of this feature on lists.sugarlabs.org
See
the discussion tab for this feature.