Title: Features/Terminal Sharing
URL: https://wiki.sugarlabs.org/go/Features/Terminal_Sharing
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Contents
1
Summary
2
Owner
3
Current status
4
Detailed Description
5
Benefit to Sugar
6
Scope
7
How To Test
8
User Experience
9
Dependencies
10
Contingency Plan
11
Documentation
12
Release Notes
13
Comments and Discussion
Summary
This feature represents
ShareTerm
, an Activity providing a shareable version of Terminal so that users can interact over the network at a single command prompt.
Owner
Name:
Ben Schwartz
Email: bmschwar@fas.harvard.edu
Current status
Targeted release:
Last updated: 2009-07-22
Percentage of completion: 100%
Detailed Description
ShareTerm is
a variant of Terminal designed to enable collaborative work at the command
prompt.  ShareTerm works by starting an unprivileged SSH daemon and a
GNU Screen
session.  The SSH daemon is tunneled over a Telepathy Stream Tube.  To avoid the need for passwords, public-key authentication is used.  The system should support an arbitrary number of participants, though at the moment the sshd is configured with a maximum of 10.
Benefit to Sugar
I hope that ShareTerm will be useful for teaching UNIX and programming
skills to novices.  For experts, the window management of Screen will be
especially useful.
Scope
The only change required to Sugar is to add a dependency on GNU Screen and OpenSSH, which are available in every distro's package system.  I think ShareTerm may merit inclusion in Fructose, but the important thing is to make Sugar-0.86 depend on Screen.
How To Test
Install the bundle from:
Shareterm
Install GNU Screen on your system.  MANDATORY.  NOTE: GNU Screen is _not_ installed by default on many Sugar systems, including OLPC's XO distributions.
Make sure you are running with Rainbow enabled!
Start ShareTerm from the Sugar UI, and then share it like any collaborative Activity.
User Experience
Shared Terminal.  Each user can type into the same shared instance from different machines, and their keystrokes will all register.  The instance actually runs on the initiator's computer.
Dependencies
GNU Screen and OpenSSH.  If security is a consideration, then Rainbow is an important requirement as well.  Running ShareTerm allows any friend who joins the activity to run arbitrary commands on your computer.  Rainbow ensures that these commands are run as a restricted, unprivileged account.  If you are running without Rainbow, you should be sure to invite only people you trust to your ShareTerm!
Contingency Plan
Tell people to install GNU Screen and OpenSSH manually before installing ShareTerm, or possibly try to package static binaries into the .xo.  Neither is ideal, especially because ShareTerm is most appropriate for users who are not yet comfortable with the command line.
Documentation
http://lists.sugarlabs.org/archive/sugar-devel/2009-May/014165.html
Release Notes
No significant changes are noteworthy here.
Comments and Discussion
See
discussion tab for this feature