Title: Gardner Pilot Academy
URL: https://wiki.sugarlabs.org/go/Gardner_Pilot_Academy#Class_notes
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Contents
1
Gardner Pilot Academy
2
Current computers at GPA
3
Prep for the Fall
4
The Summer Program
4.1
2nd Grade
4.2
3rd Grade
4.3
Class notes
5
Looking for Summer Volunteers and Work-Study Students
6
Project Goals
6.1
More Detailed Sub Goals
6.2
Standard Curriculum
6.3
Sugar Computer Lab Lesson Plans
6.3.1
Other lesson plan suggestions
6.3.2
Context
6.3.3
2nd Grade Lesson Plans
6.3.4
3rd Grade Lesson Plans
6.3.4.1
Social Studies and History
6.3.5
4th Grade
6.3.5.1
Journal
6.3.6
5th Grade
7
Technical Architecture
7.1
Primary Activities Used
8
Liabilities
9
Cognitive abilities
10
Critical Path Technical Issues
11
How you can help - Technical Tickets
11.1
Sugar Feature Requests
12
Final report
Gardner Pilot Academy
Boston Public Schools - Allston -
http://www.rabbitnet.net/gpa/
(not working as of 2010-03-10)
GPA is partnering with Solution Grove and Sugar Labs to pilot
Sugar on a Stick
.
The Gardner Pilot Academy is the flagship full-service community school within the Boston Public Schools (BPS). The school's vision is to educate the minds and develop the characters of all students in partnership with families and community.  To achieve this GPA provides high quality teaching along with a range of social, emotional and enrichment programs delivered by means of partnerships with an array of community organizations and individuals. Over the past twelve years, GPA has developed strong associations with four universities, several health and mental health agencies, the YMCA, and various organizations teaching visual and performing arts.  As one of just 20 pilot schools in the BPS, GPA is exempt from district mandates. Therefore, GPA has autonomy in the areas of budget and personnel, along with the freedom to implement innovative curricula, assessments, and interventions.
Located in a culturally and linguistically varied section of Boston, the GPA serves quite a diverse student population. GPA's 336 students and their families speak more than 13 languages ranging from Spanish to Khmer (all of which are supported by Sugar). Demographically, 15.2% are African American, 59.1% are Hispanic, 10.7% are White and 13.1% are Asian. Over 85% of the students meet the federal poverty guidelines for participation in the Free or Reduced Price Lunch Program. The majority of GPA's students fall within a group of students considered to be academically at risk.
GPA is located only a few blocks from Harvard Business School and so is convenient for project development participants who may be students at one of Boston’s many universities.
The school currently has a single computer lab with older computers running Windows 2000. We will be soliciting donations of used equipment from local business to supplement these existing resources.  Sugar can be used at all elementary levels and curriculum areas.
What we learned about what we need
to do to improve Sugar on a Stick
Next Steps
Current computers at GPA
A computer lab with about 20 EVO D500 1.7 GHz Pentium 4, 500 MB RAM computers running Windows 2000
20 new Apple laptops in a mobile cart, a.k.a. a
COW
, (OSX, GPA
Student Macbooks hardware details
, no Parallels)
Each teacher has a MacBook with Parallels 3.0
There are two teachers in the school especially interested in starting with Sugar:
4th Grade teacher who wants to do portfolios
Science Teacher who wants to pilot with the 5th grade to support a new district mandate for writing in Science
Prep for the Fall
Classes Start Sept 10th.
We are putting computers into the 4th grade classroom on Sept 4th.  This is our first experience
preparing donated computers
for Sugar on a Stick use.  We will use the wiki to record our experiences so its easier for the next deployment.
What do we want to ask for?
A workshop run by the kids we worked with in the fall.
To have open computer lab hours during whatever time parents might visit the school
To run an afterschool Sugar club?? How many days per week? - YES from 5-6pm any day.
ToDo
Solicit Stick Donations
Parent communication letters
Backup and Restore
New Stick format
VM for the Macs
The Summer Program
Classes run from July 6 to Aug 17th from 8:30 am to 5pm.  The lead teachers over the summer work 10am to 5pm during the school year so we will have good continuity.  Here is a
calendar
with GPA events.
They will not be using the mac laptop cart and the summer teachers do not have macbooks.
We will be using the computer lab and we will be talking to the school about putting more computer into classrooms and other locations.
2nd Grade
Next Tuesday we will work with the 2nd Graders on their science and social studies. The theme of the week is responsibility and the environment.  They will be learning about their community and preping for a cleanup of the local Charles River.
The goal of the first project will be to label a map of where they do the clean up with what they find during their cleanup.
After kids get their keys and boot up, enter their name and colors we will have them go to Turtle Art.  We will prepare maps and preload them on the sticks and show them how to bring them into Turtle Art.  Then we'll show them how to have the turtle label them.  Next week, after their cleanup they can label what they find on the clean-up.
Map:
http://screencast.com/t/kLcW3O7Tyb4
3rd Grade
We are hoping that the kids can create a US version of the Uruguay geography/facts game.  Any ideas on how to make that easy to do? The vision is they will learn things in class then make them into questions to put into the game.  We will meet with the third grade on Thursday afternoons.
Class notes
5 August GS
29 July GS
28 July AG
23 July AG
22 July GS
-
GPA-Notes-July-22
21 July CM
15 July
14 July GS
14 July AG
09 July
08 July
07 July
07 July XS report
01 July
Photos of work samples
Looking for Summer Volunteers and Work-Study Students
We are currently looking for committed volunteers and work-study students for the Summer. We have some funding for Work Study so if you know any eligible students please let us know.
Ideally we would like a team of 3 people, each working around 20 hours per week, consisting of a technical person, a person with education experience and a marketing person.
Project Goals
For the GPA School:
Student Learning,
Teacher Participation,
Parent Perception and
Greater GPA School community perception of the project.
Our goals for the Sugar Project are:
Sugar on a Stick projects replicated at other schools,
Improved Sugar for everyone, including OLPC XO children,
Increased visibility of Sugar, and
Knowledge and best practices gained for using Sugar in US Schools.
More Detailed Sub Goals
From our
Balanced Score Card
:
The Student Learning Section is copied here:
L1.1 Use of Sugar
L1.2 Learner Engagement
L1.3 Extend learning beyond the school day
L1.4 Students use Sugar to create and explore
L1.5 Students use Sugar to help create portfolios
L1.6 Students work collaboratively
L1.7 Students are proud of their work and feel a sense of ownership
L1.8 Sugar is supporting learning the curriculum in the classroom
L1.9 Sugar is supporting exploration and learning outside the curriculum
Standard Curriculum
Notes on Curriculum from conversation with Assistant principal.
Fundations
for Phonics K-3
Making Meaning and Being a Writer
for 1 - 5 fluency
Investigations
for K-5 math
Foss program
for science
Massachusetts Curriculum guidelines
Sugar Computer Lab Lesson Plans
This section is intended to prepare lesson plans and give details on classroom interactions for the school year starting in September, 2009.
After defining lesson plans here, we can quickly extract SW features and bug fixes which will facilitate this classroom interaction.
Other lesson plan suggestions
Please add links to other lesson plans for Sugar which have worked well. We welcome any plans or ideas for any subject, grades 3,4, and 5 for use in the fall at GPA. Just add a link to your lesson plan here and we will consider if/how we can incorporate it in to the work at GPA.
Context
10 - 20 4th grade kids will come to the computer lab once a week for an hour. Each kids gets a USB stick with SoaS and all of their previous work on it. The sticks are kept by the Sugar volunteers and brought back to class each day.
Two teachers and 2 - 4 Sugar volunteers participate in the class. One Sugar volunteer leads the class as the primary teacher.
About 1/2 hour before the class begins, the Sugar volunteers insert the USB sticks and boot each computer. Connections and network neighborhood are checked to see that each boots and they can collaborate.
At the end of class kids are asked to shut down their computers and after they leave the Sugar volunteers collect the sticks.
The class starts with the kids sitting on the carpet. The Sugar teacher projects their screen on a projector and talks about the plan for the class. Typically the kids do an interim step on the computer (e.g. find your computer, start activity n, use it a little) then they go back to the carpet for more direction. Sometimes there are several interim steps and the kids go back and forth from the carpet several times.
2nd Grade Lesson Plans
Turtle Art Lesson Plans
2nd Graders:
Day 1 (7/7):
Introduce kids to Turtle Art and basic functions - forward, back, etc.
Kids explore Turtle Art on their own by playing around with different blocks
Day 2 (7/9):
Give kids formal introcduction to Turtle Art - breifly explain UI
Kids learn to insert text and use different colors and change pen size
Introduce concept of number lines using Turtle Art
Briefly explain Cartesian coordinate system (discuss x and y values of the turtle's position)
Demonstrate how to load an image into Turtle Art
Day 3 (7/14):
Kids learn to label different parts of the map
Kids learn more about how the ordering of bricks affects the turtle's path
Kids attempt to import the map and label the school all as one series of blocks.
Day 4 (7/16):
Kids continue playing with the map to better understand the coordinate system
Kids practice labeling different parts of the map
Upload pictures of the school's fieldtrip online
Share Browse activity so kids can easliy access pictures
Day 5 (7/21) (I wasn't here on this day but this is what I think happened):
Introduce collaboration in Browse activity
Kids download images of their Charles River fieldtrip into their journals
Kids label different parts of the map using images
Day 6 (7/23):
Brief Ancient Egyptions and Babylonians history lesson on time
Kids learn about time by using Turtle Art
Kids play with Turtle Art to make turtle go in the direction of different hours
3rd Grade Lesson Plans
Social Studies and History
Lesson Plan 1
Learn to play and create new games in Memorize
Create games with pairs of words matching Geography (e.g. country : USA)
Learn to paint pictures and use them in Memorize
Save your work so it can be used next class.
Lesson Plan 2
Introduce kids to Neighborhood View and used collaboration to play the Memorize activity
Learn to go to Wikipedia, find States, copy images and use them in Memorize
Open Memorize for collaboration and play with two or more kids
Save your work so it can be used next class.
Lesson Plan 3
Introduce Uruguay activity
Discuss the different components of the game ex: questions, images, etc.
Brainstormed ideas for games
Use Wikipedia to get images for game and use Write to plan ideas for game
4th Grade
Journal
The goal of this class is to create a Journal of their work, save and share it. (need a lot more detail, creating a place now to add info as it becomes available).
5th Grade
Science Notebook (need a lot more detail, creating a place now to add info as it becomes available).
Technical Architecture
A computer lab with about 20 EVO D500 1.7 GHz Pentium 4, 500 MB RAM computers running Windows 2000
20 new Apple laptops in a mobile cart (OSX, hardware details unknown, no Parallels)
Each teacher has a MacBook with Parallels 3.0
100Mb/s LAN
LAN based collaboration. That is no Jabber or school server, just local (Salut?) collaboration in Network neighborhood.
Access to Internet (bw?)
1 x 1GB USB stick (model?) per kid
Sugar on a Stick, Strawberry release - [Sugar on a Stick/Strawberry]
Status for the Computer Lab
Boots with the boot-helper CD and connects to the internet if the broadcom drivers are installed.
Primary Activities Used
Browse (main target is wikipedia)
Turtle Art
Memorize
Paint (or other drawing program)
Journal for saving and moving work
Network Neighborhood for collaborating in real time and sharing work between computers
Conozco Uruguay
other?
Note: please add version numbers if anyone has them.
Liabilities
What is the school's policy on photos of students/teachers being taken by anyone in the class?
What is the school's policy of video of students/ teachers being taken by anyone in the class?
Are grades based on students producing electronic work? If yes, how is the school securing copies of same?
Are parents aware that their children are being involved in an experimental piece of software?
Have they given consent for this?
Cognitive abilities
How have the students been pre tested before Sugar roll out?
If you don't have study numbers you will not get administrators or superintendants elsewhere to EVEN consider your project. Test early, test often. If Sugar is good, then it'll show in the tests...right? If it doesn't show up in the tests then Sugar, in its current form, in America, will never see too many public schools. All funding comes from test scores... courtesy of
NCLB
. --23:20, 4 August 2009 (UTC)
Critical Path Technical Issues
#75
Backup and Restore of user data on a USB Stick - We need to be able to reburn the sticks with new code without losing student work. Also sticks are failing and kids are losing their work.
There had been a problem with cloning sticks that had been booted (in order to load drivers and add journal content). It is necessary to delete the owner keys and the user profile data as per
rm ~/.sugar/default/owner.key*
rm ~/.sugar/default/gconf/desktop/sugar/user/*
How you can help - Technical Tickets
All GPA tagged tickets
See also Greg Smiths
message
on sugar-devel.
High level deployment issues are listed on
Sugar on a Stick/TODO
.
The following tickets will help this deployment.
Memorize with Speak - In progress
Sugarized Tux Paint
#74
Clone a Stick. Let a teacher customize a Sugar Stick then clone it, without files or personality, for students to use.
Can't get Computer Lab Machines to Boot from USB
- The BIOS says it should be trying to boot from the USB but its not looking at the USB. A google search confirms that this is not a sugar problem, its an EVO D500 problem.  I'm hoping we find a solution.
#599
Google Search on EVO D500 usb boot gives this result:
http://forums13.itrc.hp.com/service/forums/bizsupport/questionanswer.do?admit=109447627+1237587827991+28353475&threadId=1038476
Boot Helper Floppy - This is easier then a CD because the computer has to be turned on to open the CD Drawer and put in the CD then you have to turn it off again and reboot.
#597
#579
We have several donated computers. A requirement for the donations was that we wiped the harddrives.  Thus it would be great if we had  an installable operating system enabled quick user switching between USBs. This is also impacted by
#907
, described below.
#598
and
#907
. One way to enable faster switching between Windows and Sugar is a Virtual Machine solution that will allow students to put in their USB Sticks and use all the personal data from the Sticks so they can use any computer.  To do this we need to change the way we put data onto the USB and use different partitions for the boot and the data (Ticket
#907
).
Sugar Feature Requests
This link records an in process list of priorities for Sugar development with a focus on success at the Gardner Pilot Academy:
Sugar on a Stick/Goals
Other feature requests by Gardner Pilot Academy are in
Category:Features requested by Gardner Pilot Academy
It is extracted from
this thread
on the Sugar Devel List.
Please propose additional suggestions on that list. After clarifying and validating the Feature Requests, add them to the Goals page.
Also, on the pages describing features that Gardner Pilot Academy request, add [[Category:Features requested by Gardner Pilot Academy]].
Final report
See
Gardner Pilot Academy/Final report