Title: Getting Started/Explore
URL: https://wiki.sugarlabs.org/go/Getting_Started/Explore
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Contents
1
Explore it
2
User Guide
3
Here is an older user guide.
4
Configuration
4.1
Connecting to the Internet
5
Getting Productive
5.1
Look Around
5.1.1
Help
5.1.2
A browser
5.1.3
The Journal
5.1.4
Memorize
5.1.5
Record
5.1.6
Turtle Art
5.1.7
Abacus
5.1.8
Write
5.1.9
Etoys
5.1.10
Pippy
5.1.11
Downloads
5.1.12
TamTam
5.1.13
Read an eBook
5.1.14
Calculate
5.2
More to explore
5.3
Activity Manuals and Tutorials
5.3.1
Manuals in .pdf
5.4
Sugar Labs video clips at Dailymotion
6
Feedback
Explore it
Once you have successfully launched Sugar, you should explore the Sugar Learning Platform.
Do try running Sugar on more than one machine, so you can enjoy its collaboration features.
This
small gallery
tries to demonstrate Sugar to new users.
Visit these annotated screenshot tutorials:
Tutorials/Introduction to the Sugar Interface
If you find navigation unusual, try this micro tutorial.
There are some useful pointers here,
How to present Sugar
.
User Guide
Activity Help
https://help.sugarlabs.org
provides documentation for Sugar and the XO laptop.
Here is an older user guide.
The Sugar Learners' manual
view now:
available as:
or
128 pages, 8.3 MBytes (for saving or printing).
The manual needs to be updated to include information regarding Sugar-on-a-Stick.
Configuration
Hover the pointer or right click the Learner icon
in the Home view, and then click on the
'My Settings' item on the pop-up menu
.
• Sugar on a Stick uses by default the
English (USA)
keyboard layout. Keyboard layout and other settings:
From the My Settings control panel you will see a 'Keyboard' control tool that will allow you to change the default keyboard layout.
Explore the other configuration changes that you may make on this panel.
It is interesting to explore the changes you can make in 'Frame'.
Connecting to the Internet
Connecting to the Internet with Sugar depends on the computer and networking available to it. See
Getting Connected
to get started.
For the XO laptop, please refer to this
OLPC page
.
For a conventional laptop running Sugar, connecting through an access point works. (Mesh support is becoming available on more machines.) Depending upon which
Jabber server
you are connected to, you'll see different collections of "neighbors" in the
Neighborhood View
.
Getting Productive
Look Around
Help
The Activity Help is your online manual. If you are new to Sugar, working through the Activity Help is highly recommended.
A browser
The activity named Browse is supplied on XO laptops (
here is the homepage at OLPC
). A separate activity named Surf is supplied with Sugar on a Stick.  Both are Internet browsers.
Find the Floss manual for Browse is here,
http://en.flossmanuals.net/browse/index/
Browse includes
Gnash
, the GNU Flash movie player.
You could do a quick test that your sound and video are working correctly by visiting this link
http://commons.wikimedia.org/wiki/Commons:Media_of_the_day
This link
is an excellent introduction to Sugar. If it is not in your first language, all the better, you can concentrate more on
watching!
The Journal
The Journal activity is an automated diary of everything you do.
See the The Sugar Learners' manual chapter
The Journal
.
Memorize
The game memorize is about finding matching pairs. A pair can consist of any multimedia object. At the moment these are images, sounds and text but this could be extended to animations or movie snippets as well. Which pairs do match is up to the creator of the game. Memorize is actually more than just a predefined game you can play, it allows you to create new games yourself as well.
At present the home page for Memorize is with OLPC
This silent video clip shows Memorize in action.
http://olpc.dailymotion.com/video/x9dfoq_memorize_creation
Record
The Record activity provides a simple way for children to take pictures, view slide shows, and record video and audio—all content that can be shared.
Record Activity Manual
Turtle Art
You might like to watch this video clip,
http://olpc.dailymotion.com/video/xa71j3_to-square_creation
read a few paragraphs of
Activities/Turtle Art#Getting Started
, then jump right in!
Note you can expect this clip to work in Sugar, but may be blocked to other browsers.
If the clip fails to run to the end, try this one
http://olpc.dailymotion.com/video/x9coz8_turtle-art-basics_creation
Later, make sure to go back to the
Turtle Art manual
and the home page
Activities/Turtle Art
.
There are some nice tutorials here
Turtle Art tutorials
by Tony Forster and Mokurai.
Abacus
Activities/Abacus
Write
Write is a basic text editing application featuring straightforward tools and a simple interface.
Write
Etoys
Etoys is ...
an educational tool for teaching children powerful ideas in compelling ways
a media-rich authoring environment and visual programming system
a free software program that works on almost all personal computers
This activity is the Sugar version of Etoys, which is compatible with the versions running on Linux, Mac, and Windows.
When you open Etoys the splash on lower right is the launcher for
tutorials and demos
. The
?
in top left corner for help links.
More at the homepage:
http://squeakland.org/
Pippy
Pippy is a simple and fun introduction to programming in Python, the dynamic programming language underlying much of the software on the laptop.
The home page for Pippy at OLPC
Downloads
Along with the applications built into Sugar there is an ever-growing array of downloadable content and built-in access to popular Web-based applications. This includes Google applications, SimCity, GCompris (a suite of award-winning educational software for children), and hundreds of other applications. There are currently thousands of software developers around the world developing content for the Sugar and OLPC .
To download and install a new activity:
start the Activity Browse or Surf,
go to
http://activities.sugarlabs.org
webpage, (or click the Activities link, third from left on the colored navigation bar along the top of this page.)
search for a new activity,
say you chose Listen and Spell 2
click on the
Download Now
button under the title to download Listen and Spell 2
Wait for the download to complete
open the Journal activity
start the downloaded activity from the Journal entry; the new activity will install and launch.
This OLPC page has some guidance on
downloading from the Internet
.
TamTam
TamTamMini
for the very young
TamTamJam
is the music performance activity. Sounds are played by striking individual keys on the keyboard
TamTamEdit
a colorful and intuitive graphical interface to create, modify and organise notes on five virtual “tracks”
SynthLab
is an advanced application for those who are ready to venture into sophisticated sound design.
Here is the homepage at OLPC
Read an eBook
Read your favorite book.
Activities/Read Etexts
Calculate
A simple calculator.
More to explore
Have you noticed? When you are thinking
how do I work this?
the first place to look is the homepage of the activity. They are listed here
Category:Activities
. If you do not find what you need, try the developer pages -
Activities
- this is the same link as "Activity pages" in the navigation sidebar.
Activity Manuals and Tutorials
You will find the range of Floss Activity manuals
here
, look under OLPC / Sugar
Manuals in .pdf
This is a link to a .pdf manual for the Activity Record
. When you click on the link you have the opportunity to download the file. Click the download link and the file will start to download. When the download is complete the file will be in your Journal. Provided you have the Activity Read successfully installed, the .pdf file will open when you click on it.
You should note that the Activity Read, is known not to work, at present, on Sugar On a Stick.
Trisquel sugar 5.0 can read .pdf files as a Booted CD or Installed from the CD to a 4GB USB
http://devel.trisquel.info/sugar/toast/iso/trisquel-sugar_5.0_i686-20111204.iso
Floss Manuals
- This is a link to the directory containing the record manual and more .pdf manuals, which you can download.
Sugar Labs video clips at Dailymotion
A collection of video clips which should be viewable in the Sugar Activity, Browse.
Feedback
Sugar Labs
is an all volunteer-run organization that depends on the feedback and participation of Learners (our community).
See
Get involved
,
Submit bugs
, &
Request features
all on the sidebar of every wiki page.