Title: Getting Started/lang-es
URL: https://wiki.sugarlabs.org/go/Getting_Started/lang-es
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Important:
The content of this page or section is outdated. Please
check the English reference
version. If you have checked or updated this page or section and found the content to be suitable, please remove this notice.
english
|
español
|
português
|
français
HowTo
[ID# 99630]
Acerca de Sugar
Sugar es un entorno gráfico diferente al utilizado normalmente en Microsoft Windows, sistemas operativos de Apple ó Sistemas operativos Linux.  Se concibe como una herramienta que permite a los niños aprender interactivamente. La primera cosa que un niño ve, no es un disco duro o la papelera de reciclaje - son los otros niños en el "vecindario". Los programas y aplicaciones son llamadas Actividades, muchas de las cuales permiten la colaboración entre los usuarios que están conectados con otros a través de WiFi o a través de
Jabber network
. Los desarrolladores de Sugar son animados a crear actividades con elementos colaborativos que son automáticamente permitidos.
Sugar is a different desktop environment to what is normally used in Microsoft Windows, Apple's OS X or other Linux operating systems. It is conceived as a tool to allow kids to learn interactively. The first thing that a child sees, therefore, is not a hard disk or a trash can — it’s the other kids in the “neighborhood.” Programs and Applications are called Activities, many of which allow for collaboration between users who are connected to each other by Wifi or through a
Jabber network
. Sugar developers are encouraged to write activities with collaborative elements that are automatically enabled.
Sugar es desarrollado en
Python
y se ejecuta sobre
Linux
Kernel
2.6.22 y el ambiente
Fedora 7
.
Sugar is developed in
Python
and runs on
Linux
Kernel
2.6.22 and the
Fedora 7
base environment.
Iniciarse
Puede explorar la
interface
de Sugar en la XO-1
Getting Started guide
.
You can explore the Sugar
interface
in the XO-1
Getting Started guide
.
Conectándose a Internet
En el portátil XO hay tres formas de conectarse a internet:
Wireless access point (WiFi hotspot);
La red mesh del “School Server”:
la red mesh, que permite colaboración con otras XO que ejecutan Sugar.
Connecting to the Internet is something that somewhat falls between the cracks of Sugar and the computer it's running on.
On the XO laptop, there are three ways to connect to the Internet:
Wireless access point (WiFi hotspot);
“School Server” mesh network; or
“simple” mesh network, which lets you collaborate directly with other XOs running Sugar.
Desde un portátil convencional puede lograrse conectándose a través de un access point.(El soporte de la red Mesh comienza a ser disponible para más máquinas.) Dependiendo a cual
Servidor Jabber
se está conectado verá diferentes grupos de "vecinos" en la vista de Vecindario.
From a conventional laptop running Sugar, connecting through an access point works. (Mesh support is becoming available on more machines.) Depending upon which
Jabber server
you are connected to, you'll see different collections of "neighbors" in the Neighborhood View.
Lea la
Página de conexión a internet
para instrucciones más detalladas.
Read the
Connecting to the Internet page
for detailed instructions.