Title: Glossary
URL: https://wiki.sugarlabs.org/go/Glossary
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Below are word terms or abbreviations collected from team or project glossaries (
Category:Glossary
).
See also
Sugar Taxonomy
.
Contents
1
Sugar Labs Glossary
2
OLPC (One Laptop per Child) Glossary
3
Documentation Team
3.1
A Sugar Taxonomy
3.2
Operating system
3.3
Internal storage
3.4
External storage
3.5
Networking
3.6
User Interface (UI)
3.7
Activities and Content
3.8
Documentation and Support
3.9
Localization
4
Activity Library
4.1
Submitted activity
4.2
Completed activity
4.3
Experimental activity
4.4
Nominated activity
4.5
Public activity
5
Platform Team
5.1
Harmonic Distribution
5.2
Sweets Distribution
5.3
Sugar Network
Sugar Labs Glossary
Acronym
Name/link
Notes
Sugar
Sugar Labs
software for learners
SP
Sugar Platform
A set of versioned components on which activity authors can rely when targeting their activities to run on a particular Sugar version
IAEP
I
t's
a
n
E
ducation
P
roject
A discussion mailing list for Sugar and the learning theories that it espouses
ASLO
a.sl.o
Activity Library
The collection of Sugar Activities on
http://activities.sugarlabs.org
(
a
ctivities.
s
ugar
l
abs.
o
rg)
AMO
Mozilla Add-ons
Mozilla Add-ons, also known as AMO, is a resource for finding and installing add-ons for Mozilla products. ASLO is based on AMO code.
Sweet
The abstract design of the Sugar interface, and by extension—the learner experience.
Glucose
The base Sugar software environment
Fructose
A set of demonstration Activities in Sugar
Sucrose
Glucose plus Fructose makes a basic Sugar working platform
Ribose
The hardware-specific software components developed to support the distribution of Sugar
Starch
A complete disk image for Sugar
TA
Turtle Art activity
Turtle Art is an activity with a Logo-inspired graphical "turtle" that draws colorful art based on Scratch-like snap-together visual programming elements.
SoaS
Sugar on a Stick
A complete Sugar environment supplied to run on a USB/SD flash memory drives. Also, used casually, the disc image supplied for that purpose, but used on other media. Sugar in a Fedora or other-based Live GNU/Linux distribution
XS
X
O school
S
erver
The
X
O school
S
erver, or XS, is one of the products of the OLPC project, designed to complement the OLPC XO laptop or other system running Sugar. It is a GNU/Linux-based OS (a Fedora-based distribution) engineered to be installed on generic, low-end servers.
OLPC (One Laptop per Child) Glossary
See the
OLPC:Glossary
.
Documentation Team
A Sugar
Taxonomy
Sweet
The abstract design of the interface
Sweets Distribution
A set of repositories with native packages that compose Basic software of the
Harmonic Distribution
effort. This is a special, Sugar only, distribution.
Glucose
The base Sugar environment
Fructose
A set of demonstration activities, see
Development_Team/Release/Modules#Fructose
Sucrose
The interface, plus a set of demonstration activities
Ribose
The base Linux distribution being used by Sugar
Starch(es)
A complete disk image for Sugar
Operating system
operating system (OS)
The low-level system that manages the various files, processes, etc. needed to operate the laptop; the OS used by the XO laptop is the RedHat Fedora distribution of Linux.
build
a specific instance of the operating system, designated by category and number; e.g., OLPC Update.1-703; OLPC Joyride-1792; Ubuntu 8.4 Hardy Heron; Fedora 9
Internal storage
datastore
component that manages the access to the data displayed in the Journal; these data are stored in individual files; an index that contains the metadata and speeds up searches
External storage
flash memory device/USB stick/jumpdrive/thumb drive/USB drive
A small, external storage device that plugs into one of the USB ports on a computer. They can store between 16 MB (enough to hold several music files) up to 32 GB (enough to hold multiple high quality full-length movie files) and a wide range in between. Flash drives are easily purchased at any electronic store starting as low as $5 to $10.
SD card
Secure Digital (SD) is a flash (non-volatile) memory card format used in portable devices, including digital cameras, hand-held computers, PDAs, and mobile phones. SD card capacities range from 8 MB to 32 GB.
Networking
mesh network
A wireless mesh network is a communications network made up of radio nodes in which nodes can forward information on behalf of each other so that even nodes that are not in direct radio contact can communicate via nodes that are between them. The collective coverage area of the radio nodes working as a single network becomes a mesh cloud.
infrastructure mode
network connectivity through a Wi-Fi access point, e.g., 802.11b/g
mesh mode
network connectivity through a mesh network, e.g., 802.11s
simple mesh mode
a mesh network that is running between Sugar users without a School Server
school server mesh mode
a mesh network that is mediated by a School Server
presence
a discovery service for finding other Sugar users on a network
jabber
a protocol that Sugar can use for collaboration
tubes
a protocol for passing data between Sugar users
mesh channel
Sugar prefers three channels for communication: 1, 6, and 11; in simple mesh mode, the Sugar users can only see other users on the same channel; in a School Server mesh, users on all channels are visible
access point (AP)
an AP is a device that connects wireless communication devices together to form a wireless network. The AP usually connects to a wired network and can relay data between wireless devices and wired devices. Several APs can link together to form a larger network.
mesh portal point
a mesh node that serves as a gateway (portal) to a network external to the mesh
User Interface (UI)
A User Interface is defined by Wikipedia as "the aggregate of means by which people—the users—interact with the system—a particular machine, device, computer program or other complex tools. The user interface provides means of:
Input, allowing the users to manipulate a system
Output, allowing the system to produce the effects of the users' manipulation."
So, the Sugar user interface is all the icons and words and the screen they appear on, in addition to the keyboard, mouse, and touchpad buttons used to interact with those icons and words.
Because, the Sugar learning philosophy strives to integrate every part of the system into a coherent learning tool, we emphasize the learning over other uses, and often substitute
Learners
for 'Users' when we speak of the
people
in our community.
Sugar UI
the user interface of the laptop is called “Sugar”; it consists of four views, the Frame, and the Journal
Home view
a view of what activities you are running and other status information;
Group view
a view of your friends with whom you are working on shared projects;
Neighborhood view
a view of who is on the network with you and what activities and content are being shared. The Network view is the starting screen on the XO-1 laptop.;
Activity view
a view used by the current activity that is running on the laptop
Frame
the
Frame
, which can appear in any view, holds navigation controls, the task bar (of running activities), a list of “buddies” (collaborators), internal & external devices, a clipboard, and notifications.;
Journal
a special activity where you can see your previous work done in other activities. You can also resume the work done at those activities;
toolbox
a user-interface element that appears in the top part of most activities and contains one or more toolbars
toolbar
a user-interface element that can contain several buttons, text entry fields, drop-down menus, etc.; common examples of toolbars include: Activity, View, Edit, et al.
palette
a black box that appears when the mouse hovers over an object; a palette can contain the name of the control, some details about it or a menu of some related actions.
Activities and Content
activity
an application that has an icon in the taskbar, e.g., Write, Record, Browse; Activities engage you in taking a picture, reading a book, creating a page, annotating a page, animating a drawing, making sounds and music, measuring and sensing, sharing your favorites, inviting your friends, surfing on the web, etc...
content
books, music, movies, photographs, drawings, etc. that are created on the computer or downloaded to the computer
content library
content that is created on the computer is accessed through the Journal; preloaded content is stored in a library and is accessed through the Browse activity.
bundle/activity bundle
a “zip” file with a .xo suffix used to package and distribute activities; bundles are installed in ~/Activities
content bundle/collection
a “zip” file with a .xol suffix used to package and distribute content; bundles are installed in ~/Library
roadmap
a plan made up of stages
sugar coat or sugar coating
A process for making Linux apps run under the Sugar desktop (i.e. making them to run in the Sugar interface, without the collaboration and other Sugar integration programmed into them).
sugarizing
A process of re-engineering Linux applications to run as native Sugar activities which take advantage of Sugar's collaboration capabilities and interface.
Documentation and Support
Wiki
a collaborative website that allows for community contributions and editing, e.g.,
http://wiki.sugarlabs.org
IRC/chat (Internet Relay Chat)
real-time text chat used by the development and technical support communities (and hopefully the learning community as well)
email list
a collection of email addresses—an efficient way to send email to a group of people who share an interest
Localization
Pootle
a server that is used to store and manage translation templates and files
POT file
the master translation template for a project
PO file
a file containing the instance of translated strings for a single language based upon a POT file
Activity Library
Submitted activity
Activity is only
Submitted
if its not
Completed
. Accessible only for author.
Completed activity
To complete
Submitted
activity
click
Change Status
option in
Developer Tools
menu
complete all criteria
click
Complete Activity
button
After that, activity will be marked as an
Experimental
.
Experimental activity
Completed
but not yet
Public
activity. Before installing this activity user will be warned about experimental nature of this activity. To get these activities in lists, user should enable "show experimental activities" checkbox.
Nominated activity
To nominate
Completed
activity
click
Change Status
option in
Developer Tools
menu
complete all criteria
click
Nominate Activity
button
After that, broadcast event will be send to editors. Someone of them will review activity and push it to the public.
Public activity
Activity which was reviewed by editor and pushed to the public. It is accessible for all users.
Platform Team
Harmonic Distribution
A systematic approach to supporting the full cycle of discovery, learning, collaboration, and development within the Sugar Learning Platform ecosystem. Harmonic Distribution consists of software, services, and practices that make interacting within the Sugar community more useful and complete. Harmonic Distribution consists of two major parts, the
Sweets Distribution
and the
Sugar Network
.
Sweets Distribution
A set of repositories that provide base Sugar software within heterogeneous environments including the most popular GNU/Linux distributions and hardware platforms within the Sugar community. Sweets Distribution provides the easiest way to launch Sugar and start exploring the rest of the Sugar related content using the
Sugar Network
.
Sugar Network
A system that is designed to share within the Sugar community different kinds of content, e.g., Sugar Activities, artifacts created by Sugar Activities, books, lessons, reviews, comments, questions, etc. It uses
social network
mechanisms, to setup relationships between community members intending to improve Sugar Network content. The Sugar Network consists of one global server and an arbitrary number of distributed servers to support people who don't have direct access to the global one, e.g., due to lack of Internet connectivity.