Title: Goals/2018 Submissions/Showcase Schools
URL: https://wiki.sugarlabs.org/go/Goals/2018_Submissions/Showcase_Schools
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
"I am Jaskirat Singh, SL community member.
Seeking towards Sugar labs Goals 2018 Well, it will be good to have a program like showcase Schools , that means we could make an event or program named as SHOWCASE SUGAR LABS SCHOOLS in which our marketing team should get involved and  target schools , and other educational centers , conducting seminars and guiding teachers, getting introduced about the
Sugar labs and how it can be beneficial to them . We could have some type of achievements in that so that if a particular school satisfy that criteria will be given a title of SL authorized labs
.
Moreover for this we can conduct online competitions . Because as far i have observed is that schools involve only when they are benefitted in some way . So it is also necessary to conduct some programs competitions ....then only we will be able to promote and spread SL across the globe...!
So for this,  the schools which will become SL showcase schools ,will have those seminars and also later we can make student experts in those particular schools so that those students after going through all the things in SL will conduct seminars and all other events and teach others about the things like activities ( music blocks ,turtle, etc) and when they will tell about this to others then they will seek more users. But as far i know that this could only be possible if we develop some program and allow more school comp department teachers to compete in those ( by documentation work that they have to pick an activity or something related to sugar,  use sugar things ,and develop something with help of those resources and then send to us ...so will go through it and select the work according to it we can select schools for showcase and also these type of schools can be given some type of rewards ) i think it will be good to
outreach ...! And yes will be interested too also for this we can go for special website named as education center for it where users can have different courses for it and go through it. Even i have started to get SL introduced in nearby schools. I hope this idea would work and please feel free to talk about these for suggestions as well as opinions"