Title: GoogleCodeIn2012/Participate
URL: https://wiki.sugarlabs.org/go/GoogleCodeIn2012/Participate#Mentors
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Contents
1
Students
1.1
Parental Concent
1.2
Proof of Enrollment
2
Mentors
Students
The Google Code-in contest for 13-17 year old pre-university students
will begin this Monday, November 26th at 17:00 UTC.  Students can go
to
http://www.google-melange.com
starting at 17:00 UTC (9:00 AM PST)
on Monday to register as a student in the contest.  Once you have
created your student profile you will then need to upload your
Parental Consent form and your Proof of enrollment in a pre-university
program to your profile.
Parental Concent
You can download the Parental Consent form in 14 different languages
from the Google Code-in wiki at
http://code.google.com/p/google-code-in/downloads/list
.
Proof of Enrollment
When filling out your Google Code-in 2012 Profile on the Program Site
you will also need to upload Proof of Enrollment in a Pre-university,
high  school or secondary program before you will be able to complete
any tasks and receive any prizes.
Any one of following documents is considered acceptable proof of enrollment:
A scanned copy of your student identification card that shows you were
enrolled as of 26 November 2012. The card needs to say 2012-2013
school year on it. Some ID's have a picture ID and name on the front
and the school year on the back, be sure to scan both pages if this is
the case.
A transcript or course list (official or unofficial is fine) showing
the courses you were enrolled in as of 26 November 2012. Transcript in
.txt format is NOT acceptable, but a .pdf or .jpeg of the transcript
is. (Also attach a translated version in .txt or .pdf format if it is
not in English)
A letter from your student affairs or admissions office stating that
you were enrolled as of 26 November 2012. The letter must specifically
state that you were enrolled as a student on November 26, 2012. It can
not just be dated today and say that you are a student at the school.
If the letter is in a language other than English you will need to
also send a translated copy in pdf or txt format.
If you are homeschooled, you must provide a proof of enrollment from
your cover school. If you have questions about the home school
requirement please email program administrators at ospoteam@gmail.com.
Mentors
NOTE TO MENTORS:
We need our mentors to register on Melange as part of GCI2012. Please note that not all tasks are coding tasks so please consider
registering even if you are not a coder.
1. Please go to
[1]
and select "Login" from the left hand navigation bar to register an
account on Melange.
2. Once you have an account registered on Melange, request to become a mentor for Sugar Labs. Unfortunately a this ticket describes, there
is a bug (but also a workaround
[2]
). The work around is to use this link directly to request addition to Sugar Labs list of mentors:
[3]