Title: Google Code In 2015/Participate
URL: https://wiki.sugarlabs.org/go/Google_Code_In_2015/Participate#Mentors
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Google Code-in (GCI) is a contest for pre-university students (e.g., high school and secondary school students) with the goal of encouraging young people to participate in open source. We work with open source organizations, each of whom will provide a list of tasks to be completed by student contestants. Tasks can be anything an organization needs help with, from bug fixes, to writing code, to user experience research, to writing documentation. The contest takes place entirely online.
Google Code-in is intended to help students who may have wanted to get involved in open source but didn't know where to start. By working through the tasks created by participating open source organizations, contestants will be given the opportunity to engage with the open source community and get involved. The participating open source organizations gain the benefit of additional contributions to their project, often in important areas that may get overlooked for whatever reason. It is Google's not so secret hope that the student contestants of today will be long-term contributors to these and other open source projects in the future.
(quoted from
[1]
)
See
[2]
for more info.
Contents
1
Students
1.1
Parental Consent
1.2
Proof of Enrollment
2
Mentors
Students
You can register on the Google Code-in contest site once the contest begins on December 7, 2014 at 9AM PT (17:00 UTC).  At that time you will complete these three steps:
fill in your student profile
upload the Parental Consent form that your parent/legal guardian initialed, filled out and signed (available in multiple languages on the Downloads page on this site and on the Google Code-in wiki).
upload your proof of enrollment in a pre-university program.
Once you have completed the three steps above you can claim your first task.
Parental Consent
You can download the Parental Consent form in 17 different languages
from the Google Code-in wiki at
http://code.google.com/p/google-code-in/downloads/list
.
Proof of Enrollment
The contest is open to all students who are at least thirteen (13) years of age and no older than seventeen (17) years of age upon your date of registration for the Contest. Students must be enrolled in a pre-university program, e.g. high school, secondary school, or educational institution and have parental consent in order to participate. See
[3]
for additional details.
Mentors
NOTE TO MENTORS:
We need our mentors to register on Melange as part of GCI2015. Please note that not all tasks are coding tasks so please consider
registering even if you are not a coder.
1. Please go to
[4]
and select "Login" from the left hand navigation bar to register an
account on Melange.
2. Once you have an account registered on Melange, request to become a mentor for Sugar Labs.