Title: Government FAQ
URL: https://wiki.sugarlabs.org/go/Government_FAQ
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Contents
1
Educational Benefits and Other Effects
1.1
What's the evidence for XOs and Sugar in education?
1.2
Do I have to buy XOs in order to use Sugar?
2
OLPC and Partners
2.1
What is One Laptop Per Child?
2.2
What is Sugar Labs?
2.3
How are OLPC and Sugar Labs related?
2.4
Which countries have one-to-one computer deployments?
2.5
What user groups work with XO and Sugar?
3
XO
3.1
What is the XO?
3.2
Does the XO run Microsoft Windows?
3.3
Why not use Windows?
3.4
What does the XO cost?
3.5
What else will we need to pay for?
4
Other Platform Options
4.1
What should I consider when evaluating computers for education?
4.2
?
Below are questions commonly asked by governmental officials about the OLPC and Sugar plans, with short answers here and links to longer discussions elsewhere. Please
add questions and answers
that you have encountered.
Remember, It's An Education Program, not a laptop program. XOs are part of the story, and Sugar on any other supported Linux is another.
Educational Benefits and Other Effects
What's the evidence for XOs and Sugar in education?
Early results have shown gains in academic achievement, personal and social growth, and educational methods. Several trials have shown extremely promising results for immigrants struggling with a new language, and for students with disabilities of several kinds. We have also seen that these results do not occur automatically. Improper deployment can result in poor outcomes, as with any technology. However, several deployments, including Ethiopia and Nepal have returned improvements that astonished participants and researchers.
Further gains are expected when a full range of Free digital learning materials becomes readily available. At this point, computers will cost less than printed textbooks in most countries, particularly when the next generation of lower-cost computers appears.
See
Academic Papers
Experience and Anecdotal Evidence
Education Bibliographies
If you would like to see more specific measures, please ask us. We are in contact with many educational research organizations.
Do I have to buy XOs in order to use Sugar?
Not at all. This is an education project, not a laptop project. Sugar runs on a wide variety of other computers, and on a number of versions of Linux.
The choice of computers depends on your requirements. XOs have advantages where extreme low power is required, or ruggedness, or minimum cost. Other computers may be more appropriate in other situations, or for older students. If you have computers for all of your children now, you can put Linux and Sugar on them in several ways.
Install Sugar on your current Linux, if you have one
Dual boot with your current software, if you have Windows
Run Sugar in a Virtual Machine
Boot from LiveCD
Boot from Sugar on a Stick
OLPC and Partners
What is One Laptop Per Child?
Mission Statement
: To create educational opportunities for the world's poorest children by providing each child with a rugged, low-cost, low-power, connected laptop with content and software designed for collaborative, joyful, self-empowered learning. When children have access to this type of tool they get engaged in their own education. They learn, share, create, and collaborate. They become connected to each other, to the world and to a brighter future.
What is Sugar Labs?
Sugar Labs
is the non-profit/NGO responsible for the development of  the Sugar educational software
platform
.
Sugar
is the core component of a worldwide effort to provide every child with equal opportunity for a quality education. Available in 25
languages
, Sugar’s
Activities
are used every school day by almost one-million children in more than forty countries. Originally developed for the One Laptop per Child XO-1 netbook, Sugar
runs on most computers
. Sugar is
free and open-source software
.
How are OLPC and Sugar Labs related?
Sugar Labs is a spin-off of OLPC. They coordinate their work on XO hardware and Sugar software.
Which countries have one-to-one computer deployments?
XOs delivered, shipped or ordered
Extremadura
in Spain
Venezuela, Intel Classmates with Caixa Mágica Linux
Brazil, Mobilis tablet computers with Linux
What user groups work with XO and Sugar?
This is a partial list.
US
OLPC America
(defunct)
OLPC Birmingham
Alabama
AZ XO
Arizona
OLPC Golden State
California
OLPC California
California
OLPC SanFranciscoBayArea
California
OLPC Santa Barbara
California
Middletown Childrens Project
Connecticut
Yale Interest Group
Connecticut
OLPC Learning Club D.C.
District of Columbia
OLPC Chicago
Illinois
OLPC New Orleans
Louisiana
LeXO: Lexington XO Users Group
Massachusetts
Olin university chapter
Massachusetts
OLPC Boston
Massachusetts
OLPC Saint Louis
Missouri
Native Ascent
Montana
Santa Fe Complex OLPC Community
New Mexico
OLPC New York
New York
OLPC Rochester, NY
New York
Raleigh-Durham group
North Carolina
XOhio
Ohio
PDX-OLPC Users
Oregon
Eugene XO Users Workspace
Oregon
OLPC Pennsylvania
Student Technology Outreach
Carnegie-Mellon University, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania
XO-Austin
Texas
Dallas FortWorth Area XO users group
Texas
Houston XO User Club
Texas
OLPC Vermont
Vermont
SeaXO
Washington
OLPC Bellingham
Washington
International
OLPC Afghanistan
OLPC Albania
OLPC Argentina
OLPC Belgium
OLPC Benin
OLPC Bhutan
OLPC Brazil
OLPC Cambodia
OLPC Catalunya
OLPC Canada
OLPC Chile
OLPC China
OLPC Colombia
OLPC Cyprus
OLPC Ecuador
OLPC Egypt
OLPC Ethiopia
OLPC France
OLPC Germany
OLPC Ghana
OLPC Greece
OLPC India
OLPC Iraq
OLPC Israel
OLPC Japan
OLPC Kenya
OLPC Korea
OLPC Laos
OLPC Libya
OLPC Malaysia
OLPC Mexico
OLPC Mongolia
OLPC Myanmar
OLPC Nepal
OLPC Netherlands
OLPC New Zealand
OLPC Nigeria
OLPC Pakistan
OLPC Paraguay
OLPC Peru
OLPC Philippines
OLPC Poland
OLPC Rwanda
OLPC Russia
OLPC Slovenia
OLPC Sri Lanka
OLPC South Africa
OLPC Taiwan
OLPC Thailand
OLPC UK
OLPC Uruguay
Are they official parts of OLPC?
No, they are groups of volunteers, sometimes associated with a school, university, or NGO.
XO
What is the XO?
See
XO: The Children's Machine
.
Does the XO run Microsoft Windows?
Microsoft prepared a special version of Windows XP for the XO-1 (see
OLPC:Windows
), but has not marketed it.
Why not use Windows?
Windows imposes extra costs at every turn for upgrades and applications, and does not run the Sugar education software.
You may hear the argument that schoolchildren should use the tools that are the de facto standard in business and government offices. There are several objections to this theory, particularly as it applies to Microsoft Windows and Microsoft Office.
Linux, Sugar, and other Free Software comes with source code, so that more advanced students can learn from it and improve it. In particular, it can be adapted to any local language requirements without asking permission from a vendor.
It will be 6-12 years before children now in elementary school (grades 1-6) graduate from a secondary school, and either enter the workforce or go on to higher education. If you look at the software of 6-12 years ago, and compare it with what is in use today, you will see that this idea would not have worked well in the past, and is unlikely to work better in the future.
The only constant in the world today is change. Children need to learn to adapt, not learn to use only one kind of software.
We do not know what will be the de facto standard in business and government 6-12 years from now. Many countries are considering converting all of their operations to Free Software.
That isn't how we teach children anything else.
What does the XO cost?
Currently, the cost is $189 in quantity, starting at 10,000 units.
What else will we need to pay for?
OLPC provides
XOs
School servers
Sugar software
Creative-Commons licensed learning content
Some localization
OLPC does not provide
Electricity
Internet
Teacher training
Curriculum planning
Open Learning Exchange, Earth Treasury, and other organizations can assist with these requirements.
Other Platform Options
What should I consider when evaluating computers for education?
The first question is, What do our students need? The answer to that question determines what weight to give the rest of the questions.
Children, especially poor children in areas lacking infrastructure, need computers that are
rugged
safe
secure
inexpensive
environmentally friendly
able to run on limited power
able to communicate in the absence of the Internet
fast enough
capacious enough
able to run the best education software
usable in sunlight
These are not the questions asked by prosperous buyers, who usually want the biggest and fastest computers they can afford. There are, of course, many computers with faster processors, more memory, and more storage than the XO, but no others designed specifically to meet the stringent requirements of children. On the other hand, older students probably should not have to use the very small XO keyboard.
?