Title: Karma/Dictionary
URL: https://wiki.sugarlabs.org/go/Karma/Dictionary
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
assets
multimedia objects such as images, sounds and videos that are used in Karma lessons
bundle
a collection of lessons, possibly also including Karma utilities and a HTML 5 capable browser (see
Karma/Bundle_layout
for more details). Often refers to a sugar bundle
canvas
a drawing element in html5. Supports raster/bitmap graphics
commonjs
an effort to create standard library for javascript
context/ctx
The Rendering context for a canvas element, can be 2D or 3D
Chakra
landing page (formerly known as MenuStage in E-Paath)
exercise
exercise is where the student gets to assess how well she has learned the content of the lesson
game
a fun way to explore the material introduced in the lesson which helps in the learning objective
gettext
A GNU library for localizing text
help text
accompanying online help within Karma
inkscape
graphical drawing tool for SVG
John Resig, aka jresig
the king of JavaScript. When coding js, it is best to first consult his books and blog and otherwise ask yourself WWjD -- What Would jresig Do?
karma collection
a collection allows easy reference to individual assets. There are collections for images, sounds, svgs, videos, and canvases. Referencing an individual member of a collection gives you access to the helper methods.
knavbar
lesson navigation, a navigation bar that should be at the top of every page in Karma
kpage
an individual page within a lesson, tbd how to do these technically. The kpage could be an iframe or properly positioned div
lesson
a self-contained unit of Karma content
lesson plan
detailed overview of how teachers can use the activity in the classroom, which homework can be assigned to pupils, etc.
lesson text
blue-print for the activity and contains every piece of information the developers need to implement the activity
narwhal
a command-line interpreter and standard library for javascript
Raphael
a javascript library for manipulating SVG
review
a page containing the assessment and scores of past lessons
teacher's note
document detailing learning goals, (possibly) links to related school book contents, ideas for preceding and follow-up activities, etc.
tutorial
the first part of the lesson that introduces the concepts of the lesson
unobtrusive javascript