Title: Karma:Meeting 21 Sep 2009
URL: https://wiki.sugarlabs.org/go/Karma:Meeting_21_Sep_2009
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
status of Subzero's Thesis
The OLE Nepal devs want subzero to create the "Capacity" lesson in Karma. What does subzero think?  -- He will have to play with it more to understand the scope of work
Pflores visit to Nepal and encouraging Uruguay to use Karma
git Stuff
Briefly discuss benefits of branching in git vs. creating temporary files like index1.html
power of .gitignore and why we should use it
Bryan needs admin rights to Karma repo
KCD's return to Austria, how does he want to stay involved?
SVG - what are our options?
different libs
raphaeljs?
SVGWeb
SVG Web is just for cross-browser rendering of SVG
SVGKit (
http://svgkit.sourceforge.net/
)
jquerySVG?
dojox.gfx
Criteria for Evaluating libraries
library download size
strength of community behind lib
Ease of use
Any conflicts using together w/ jquery.karma.js
Decisions
We will test both dojox.gfx and raphaeljs
We will meet 21:15 UTC Wednesday to decide which to use
We will keep the chosen svg library separate from Karma and not integrate it
Bryan will attempt to reimplement adding_up using the chosen svg library
We will refactor Karma according to the SVG library chosen and this will take precedence over the other goals for release 0.2
The below Meeting Items are shelved awaiting a decision on SVG
i18n - progress?
Review
for 0.2
, are we on track?
mpavel looking for more things to work on, what should we ask him to do?
Narwhal
and
packaging
Talk about how narwhal handles packaging
Should we make karma a narwhal package?
narwhal's method of managing modules and compiling all your project's dependencies into a single file is really sweet
Update on Vaibhaw -- will be working on Karma full-time most likely starting this week
Make sure everyone is clear why we should use only js 1.6 and what we can use from it -- filter(), map(), forEach()
Goals for this week
i18n demo working
parser script
pass unmadindu's sample tests
Narwhal
Get narwhal working in browser
Figure out how to build a package that contains all the dependencies for a project
Clean up chakra so all 3 stages look nice
Select an SVG library to work w/ or copy