Title: Karma:Anatomy of a Karma Lesson
URL: https://wiki.sugarlabs.org/go/Karma:Anatomy_of_Lesson
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Contents
1
Subset of an Activity
2
Sections
2.1
Introduction
2.2
Reading
2.3
Game
2.4
Exercise
2.5
Summary
3
Widgets
3.1
Help Dialogue
3.2
Main Navigation
3.3
Page Navigation
3.4
Scoreboard
4
ToDo
Subset of an Activity
The name "activity" in the Sugar context roughly refers to a program with the following attributes:
It can be launched from the Activity Circle or journal
Is installed through an XO bundle and can be removed with the "minus" icon
In contrast, a Karma "Lesson" is much more granular than a Sugar Activity. Related Karma lessons should be aggregated into individual Sugar Activities. Karma lesson are small, discrete learning units, that introduce important concepts and give the student an opportunity to work with those concepts. Additionally, a lesson plan and Teachers' Note should be included in each Karma Lesson. These documents help the instructor facilitate the lesson, whether in formal or informal settings.
A Karma Lesson consists of 5 sections
Introduction - Identifies the lesson and has quick links to Teacher's Note and Lesson Plan
Reading  - Can be passive or interactive but no information is recorded for the Summary. The student learns about the basic concepts in this section.
Game (optional) - This is a fun game. May be used as a reward for good results in the Exercise
Exercise - The student can test her knowledge in this interactive exercise. Results are recorded for display in the Summary.
Summary - Provides a summary report on how the student did on the exercise. Can provide suggestions on how the student can improve.
There are 4 widgets in a Karma Lesson that deserve special attention
Main Navigation
Help Dialogue
Page navigation
Scoreboard
The example provided here is an Epaath lesson created by
OLE Nepal
in partnership with the Nepali government. Dr. Saurav Dev Bhatta, Sunil Pokharel, Om Yadav, and Kamana Regmi designed this layout.
Sections
Introduction
1. The Back button. To return to a main navigation page
2. Background image. This is more important than one might first realize. The organization or government providing the activities will likely want to put their own custom image to "brand" the lesson. Additionally, a government insignia may reassure teachers that the material has been approved by the government.
3. Class Name and Subject
4. Name of Lesson and one line description
5. Links to pdf documents for Teacher's Note and Lesson Plan. Both should be stored locally
The Teacher's Note explains what concepts the lesson teaches and where it fits in the curriculum. The Lesson Plan provides an example of how the teacher can facilitate the lesson in the classroom.
Reading
1. Back button
2. Navigation to Teacher's Note and Lesson Plan
3. Section Navigation. These three icons allow the student to jump between the Reading, Game, and Exercise.
4. The Help button which opens an overlay
5. Navigation between "pages" in the Reading. The Reading section only has one page but most Reading sections have multiple pages.
6. Navigation by Page # rather than arrow buttons
Game
ToDo
Exercise
1. Scoreboard tracking the results of the students answers. A correct answer should not only change the scoreboard but say "correct" or "incorrect" each time the student enters an answer.
2. Control buttons for the Exercise. The first button is "Play", the second "Play Again", and the third goes to the Summary section. The summary section should be disabled until the student has completed the exercise.
3. Navigation within the pages of the exercise.
Summary
The red bordered rectangle is the summary of what the lesson taught.
Translated from Nepali into English, it reads "In this lesson you learned the following things . . ."
The bold text between the red-bordered box and green bordered box reads "Your last five scores are . . ."
The green bordered rectangle lists the last five scores. The columns are:
Level
Score
Date
Time
The cheetah animation is a placeholder for supplemental materials
The two buttons on the bottom are "Restart Lesson" and "Restart Exercise"
Widgets
Help Dialogue
Tabs
1st tab - Help text for the reading
2 tab - Help text for exercise w/ numbered entries for each level. Clicking on the Number displays the help text for a particular level in the exercise
Last tab - Exit
The default tab displayed should correspond to which section the student is currently in
Format of Help file
1st line - Specifies what this help page applies to "Exercise Level 1", "Reading", "Exercise Level 2"
2nd line - Title of activity
Objective of lesson
About this activity
How to use it
Main Navigation
Navigation to the Teacher's Note and Lesson Plan
Page Navigation
Scoreboard
ToDo
Where to specify the license information? Perhaps on the Introduction?
Is the Help Dialogue contextual? Does it provide different information depending whether you are in the Reading, Game, Exercise, or Summary?