Title: Listen spell
URL: https://wiki.sugarlabs.org/go/Summer_of_Code/2009/Listen_spell
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Contents
1
About you
2
About your project
3
You and the community
4
Miscellaneous
listen_spell
About you
Q. What is your name?
Ans. Kushal
Q. What is your email address?
Ans. coolkushal@gmail.com
Q. What is your Sugar Labs wiki username?
Ans. kushal.7
Q. What is your IRC nickname?
Ans. kushal
Q. What is your primary language? (We have mentors who speak multiple languages and can match you with one of them if you'd prefer.)
Ans. English & Hindi.
Q. Where are you located, and what hours do you tend to work? (We also try to match mentors by general time zone if possible.)
Ans. New Delhi, UTC+530 Susceptible to any timing.
Q. Have you participated in an open-source project before? If so, please send us URLs to your profile pages for those projects, or some other demonstration of the work that you have done in open-source. If not, why do you want to work on an open-source project this summer?
Ans. This is my first chance. Summer is the vacation time and I want to capitalize on it. I’ll put in the best of my efforts and will devote my full time to the project. I want to work with an organization whereby I can contribute to the society. Since the motto of your organization is to educate every child I would be grateful to you if you’d allow me to be a part of this campaign of yours. Working on an open source project will be A DREAM COME TRUE FOR ME.
About your project
Q. What is the name of your project?
Ans. Listen Spell
Q. Describe your project in 10-20 sentences. What are you making? Who are you making it for, and why do they need it? What technologies (programming languages, etc.) will you be using?
Ans. My project is basically building a Listen and Spell activity. The main idea is to develop a project which would help the students learn new words helping them to improve their vocabulary and picking up the right pronunciation of words besides enabling them to learn the correct usage of grammar.
Separate login sessions will be allotted to the students & teachers. This would enable the teacher to take a note of:- 
1) The individual scores of students. 
2) The problem areas where the student needs improvement.
3) Students can be divided into groups based on the above.
4) test/exam of students or groups can also be taken.
For an efficient usage of a language the foundations should be solid. A rich vocabulary followed by correct pronunciation along with the proper usage of grammar is inevitable. 
The project will include a specially designed curriculum to boost the communication skills of the students.
I’ll use the python, gtk for this.
Q. What is the timeline for development of your project? The Summer of Code work period is 7 weeks long, May 23 - August 10; tell us what you will be working on each week. (As the summer goes on, you and your mentor will adjust your schedule, but it's good to have a plan at the beginning so you have an idea of where you're headed.) Note that you should probably plan to have something "working and 90% done" by the midterm evaluation (July 6-13); the last steps always take longer than you think, and we will consider cancelling projects which are not mostly working by then.
Ans. [TODO]
Q. Convince us, in 5-15 sentences, that you will be able to successfully complete your project in the timeline you have described. This is usually where people describe their past experiences, credentials, prior projects, schoolwork, and that sort of thing, but be creative. Link to prior work or other resources as relevant.
Ans. I am an active member of my college society SDUT (Software Development Unit of TITS) which is aimed at developing projects for our college.
Programming is the area of my interest and I can spend hours doing it. 
Besides summer being the free time I can fully devote my time to the project development.
I usually solve the questions of SPOJ (
http://www.spoj.pl/users/kushal_7/
).
So I can assure you about a timely completion of my project with perfection as asked by you.
You and the community
Q. If your project is successfully completed, what will its impact be on the Sugar Labs community? Give 3 answers, each 1-3 paragraphs in length. The first one should be yours. The other two should be answers from members of the Sugar Labs community, at least one of whom should be a Sugar Labs GSoC mentor. Provide email contact information for non-GSoC mentors.
Ans. The completion of my project will serve the following purposes to the community:-
A complete assistance to the project even after its completion 
Taking up the s/w failures occurring in the future
Including more of my friends (engineers) for the development of the plugins to the project thus incorporating larger knowledge base and features to the project
This will directly increase the number of members to the community besides providing a larger assistance to your other future projects
Q. Sugar Labs will be working to set up a small (5-30 unit) Sugar pilot near each student project that is accepted to GSoC so that you can immediately see how your work affects children in a deployment. We will make arrangements to either supply or find all the equipment needed. Do you have any ideas on where you would like your deployment to be, who you would like to be involved, and how we can help you and the community in your area begin it?
Ans. My house is located near a government school affiliated to the Haryana board
The board has directed the schools to stress on English as primal language.
The school owns a good infrastructure in terms of its computer lab resources. The only problem being the staff not able to put attention on using computer as a viable resource in educating the students.
Holding a language period a week would not be a problem to them
Q. What will you do if you get stuck on your project and your mentor isn't around?
Ans. I will do the following things in the same order: 
1.	Google it. 
2.	Ask on IRC a specific query. 
3.	Ask on mailing list.
4.	Discuss on different forums.
Q. How do you propose you will be keeping the community informed of your progress and any problems or questions you might have over the course of the project?
Ans. I will do the following things:
1. Write about it on my blog.
  2. Update WIKI Page with Progress (every week)
  3. Problems/Questions: IRC and Mailing Lists.
Miscellaneous
My Screenshot with my email address
Q. We want to make sure that you can set up a
development environment
before the summer starts. Please send us a link to a screenshot of your Sugar development environment with the following modification: when you hover over the XO-person icon in the middle of Home view, the drop-down text should have your email in place of "Restart." See the image on the right for an example. It's normal to need assistance with this, so please visit our IRC channel, Q.sugar on irc.freenode.net, and ask for help.
Q. What is your t-shirt size? (Yes, we know Google asks for this already; humor us.)
Ans. Medium
Q. Describe a great learning experience you had as a child.
Ans. As I child I noticed the great zeal and devotion that a child puts in to learn things using a computer instead of following the same through traditional copy pen educational system
Q. Is there anything else we should have asked you or anything else that we should know that might make us like you or your project more?
Ans. No