Title: Local Labs
URL: https://wiki.sugarlabs.org/go/Local_Labs#Local_Labs_Directory
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Team Home
·
Join
·
Contacts
·
Resources
·
FAQ
·
Roadmap
·
To Do
·
Meetings
Contents
1
Proposals
2
Notice
3
Subpages
Sugar Labs appreciates the efforts of Local Labs in making the Sugar platform relevant to their local communities. Local Labs around the globe do the following, and more:
Adapt the technology and pedagogy to an area's culture and resources (e.g, developing activities and content specific to a region)
Help translate Sugar to the local language(s)
Support Sugar deployments in area schools
Create a local community devoted to the Sugar Labs principles, making Sugar more open and sustainable
Provide for communication,between the local communities and the global Sugar Labs community
Develop Local content and software that can be used not only for local purposes but also for the overall community
Host, co-host or partner in the organization of conferences, workshops, talks and meetings related to the use or development of Sugar
Sugar Labs seeks to foster a sense of ownership and associated entrepreneurship with the user communities who support Sugar. Sugar Labs, as the official representative of the project itself, maintains responsibility for setting clear goals and maintaining any necessary infrastructure needed by the project as a whole. In turn, Local Labs dedicate themselves to using Sugar to serve their local communities. But, what is the "business model" for a successful Local Lab? It seems that some necessary conditions for success would be:
A university connection as a local human resource
A local pilot user group from which to learn
A local passion or sub-goal that provides a rational for the work
Bi-directional communication with Sugar Labs and other Local Labs
A sustainable and well-defined entrepreneurship model
A program to reach out to local free-software communities and local industry
A marketing program or roadmap
What are other considerations? And are these initial "conditions" correct? Your input would be of great value to the efforts of Local Labs everywhere. Please join the discussion.
Proposals
Sugar Labs Ghana
proposal
Sugar Labs DC
proposal
Sugar Labs Chile
proposal
Notice
Sugar Labs Local Labs are not officially endorsed by or affiliated with Sugar Labs, Inc.
Subpages
Local Labs/Contacts
Local Labs/FAQ
Local Labs/Getting Involved
Local Labs/Meetings
Local Labs/Resources
Local Labs/Roadmap
Local Labs/TODO