Title: Mailing Lists
URL: https://wiki.sugarlabs.org/go/Mailing_Lists#Developer_Lists
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
See this OLPC wiki page for an
introduction
to mailing lists.
Sugar Labs lists are hosted by the
GNU Mailman
project. For help with their service, see  their
documentation page
.
Contents
1
Introduction
2
General Lists
3
Regional Lists
4
Project Lists
5
Developer Lists
6
Systems Infrastructure
7
Starting a new list
Introduction
Visit
lists.sugarlabs.org
to see all the Sugar Labs mailing lists.  After registering your email address with the mailing list, you will receive the discussion posts or digests of the posts made to the list server.  Each list maintains an archive of all its posts.  A link to the archive is available on each list's info page. For example, here is a link to the
Community news archive
.
You may respond to a post in the archive by clicking the author's email address (at the top of the posting). This will invoke the mailto: link to the list's address with the post's subject line and message identifiers to place your post properly in the thread.
See also the One Laptop per Child (OLPC) mailing lists and archives at
lists.laptop.org
.
General Lists
It's an Education Project (IAEP)
Our main mailing list for discussions of Education and Sugar
(See a graphic
Self Organising Map
for an overview of the past weeks' discussions on the list.)
Marketing
Where we discuss marketing and outreach for the Sugar Learning Platform and its parent organization, Sugar Labs
Community News
The Sugar community news weekly digest
Regional Lists
Colombia
Sugar Labs Colombia discussion
olpc-Sur
A list frequented by teachers using the Sugar platform in Latin America
Project Lists
Dextrose
Deployments' XO operating system
Sugar on a Stick (SoaS)
Development of live Sugar distributions
Summer of Code
A list to support the Google Summer of Code open source development project
Fourth Grade Math
A list supporting the development of activities for the
Math4 Project
School Server
A list for discussions on the School Server, XS (
X
O school
S
erver)
Developer Lists
Sugar-devel
The Sugar and Activity developers' email list
(See the graphic
Self Organising Map
archive for an overview of past months' discussions.)
Bugs
E-mail feed from the Sugar Labs bug tracking system
Sugar-Desarrollo
A Spanish language Sugar developers' mailing list
olpc
The
Fedora-OLPC Project
for OLPC XO operating systems that include a Sugar distribution
devel
The OLPC system hardware and software developers' email list
Systems Infrastructure
Systems
A list for those supporting the
Sugar Labs systems infrastructure
Starting a new list
The best way to start a new mailing list is to begin a discussion on a current list that's related to the topic. Once the discussion becomes active, ask for a separate list for that topic.
When a critical mass of people are regularly discussing the same topic, email the following information to the IAEP list:
The name for the new mailing list, with alternative names in case the first one is taken
A description of the list, its purpose, and why it's needed (being able to say "we've been talking on this other list for a while, and the discussion has grown too big, see these archive links" is helpful)
The name/email of the list administrator, and of at least one other moderator (minimum, one admin and one moderator)
At least 10 names/email addresses of people who want to be the initial subscribers