Title: Marketing Team/Organizing an Event
URL: https://wiki.sugarlabs.org/go/Marketing_Team/Organizing_an_Event
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
This article is a
stub
. You can help Sugar Labs by
expanding it
.
Contents
1
Event Organizers' Resources
2
Getting Started
3
Accommodations
4
Visuals
5
Media and Flyers
6
Swag
7
Equipment
8
Clothes
9
Speaking
10
Holding a Sugar Demonstration
11
Holding a SugarCamp
12
Report
Event Organizers' Resources
There is a lot of preparation to do before an event. This guide will help you to not forget some parts.
Getting Started
If you are involved in organizing an event for Sugar Labs, please add it to the Sugar Labs Events list, so others can easily find it.
It's a good idea to send an announcement to the marketing mailing list .
For the planning of an event we suggest that you setup up a wiki page with the event name as title and all relevant information. Take this template if you are not familiar with the wiki.
Attend a weekly marketing meetings to find helping hands and promote your event.
Accommodations
Big events like LinuxTag last 4 days. It works well to have one person organize the accommodations for the group. There are several good reasons to stay at the same place: all ambassadors can eat breakfast together, it's easier to organize things for the leisure time, it helps save money and it's definitely more fun.
Visuals
Please check the FIXME Logo Usage Guidelines and ask logo@sugarlabs.org for a usage permission before using the Sugar Labs Logos.
Banners
Business Cards
Posters
Media and Flyers
Flyer
Sugar on a stick
Live CDs
Swag
T-shirts
Equipment
If you have a small booth (only a small table), take your laptop with you and use it to show Sugar to the visitors.
If you have larger booth or demonstration room you may need more hardware. Perhaps one day there will be an EventBox with hardware, but for now use it as a check-list.
Clothes
The Ambassador Polo Shirt is the standard of if possible. With this shirt there is a difference to other project.
We suggest that all attendees wear the same shirt. It's easier for the visitors to identify a representative of the booth this way.
Of course you are free in choice of your clothing but don't forget that you represent Sugar Labs and not yourself. At a event, we are the face of Sugar Labs.
Speaking
Holding a Sugar Demonstration
Holding a SugarCamp
Report
Other ambassadors are always interested in your experience. What was good or bad? Where is potential to improve something?
If you have, show us some pictures of the event. This is a good resource to see how the booth layout was and the surroundings.
Join a marketing meeting to recapitulate and answer open questions about the event.
Check Reporting Guidelines to get help.Add