Title: Marketing Team/Events/MiniCamp Paris 2009/Christoph's Notes
URL: https://wiki.sugarlabs.org/go/Marketing_Team/Events/MiniCamp_Paris_2009/Christoph%27s_Notes
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Contents
1
Sessions
1.1
School Server
1.2
GCompris
1.3
OLPC Quebeque
1.4
Sugar 0.86
2
Random Discussions
3
Organization of similar future events
3.1
General thoughts
3.2
Pre-Event
3.3
During Event
3.4
Post-Event
Here's a list of notes from the various sessions and discussions I attended here at
Marketing Team/Events/MiniCamp Paris 2009
.
Sessions
School Server
XS-0.6 is looking sweet;-)
timeframe for 0.6: July (?)
bootable SD card to turn an (unlocked) XO into an XS
improved ejabberd setup
GCompris
need a maintainer for the Sugar branch (!)
GCompris admin interface and student progress => something we need for
all
Sugar activities
OLPC Quebeque
get template of 'in-school-use document'
Sugar 0.86
information subject of change so take it with a grain of salt and await details and confirmation from the actual development team
estimated release: end of September, to coincide with...
GNOME 2.28 (final release: Sept. 23)
Fedora 12 release (final freeze: Sept. 22, final release: Nov 3rd)
considerations about how to include the artefacts produced by the Google Summer of Code projects (=>
communicate with GSoC students and mentors
)
focus on bug fixes
clean up and consolidation of Trac
switch from Matchbox to
Metacity
toolbars:
redesign of default view
experimentation with new features (mostly in terms of designs and concepts, not necessarily implemented in Sugar-core code)
Group view
reward system
audio subsystem
general discussion on the question of what features are important (input from deployments and pilot sites is badly needed)
Random Discussions
How can European grassroots initiate and run successful Sugar pilot?
frameworks, frameworks, frameworks
Uruguay contact (Italian students)
improve research angle, collect related information and contacts from around the world
Organization of similar future events
General thoughts
2 Sugar focused days as minimum (4 days as a maximum)
WiFi needs to be available
all the time
location should have one large room to assemble everyone, smaller seperate spaces to get work done
food and drinks should be available (Lebanese food prefered;-)
don't put too much strain on one person (e.g. Sean during Sugar Camp Paris 2009)
make it possible for remote contributors to attend during the event
Pre-Event
announce meeting date and location in due time
find sponsorship for event
find suitable location for meetups
find accomodation for attending people (Urban Camping)
announce rough agenda in due time
During Event
introductory round at the beginning of the day (esp. when new people are present)
announce how remote contributors can attend during the event
preferably organize a certain time-slot (e.g. mid-day and/or at the end of the day)
end with what people liked and didn't like
Post-Event
follow up on what was discussed
make summaries of what was discussed available to the larger community