Title: Marketing Team/Events/Sugarcamp Boston 2008/Feedback
URL: https://wiki.sugarlabs.org/go/Marketing_Team/Events/Sugarcamp_Boston_2008/Feedback
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Please add your thoughts inline on this page, and discuss on the
Talk:Sugarcamp/Feedback
page if you need to reach consensus on how to phrase a certain point. Thanks!
Mchua
06:44, 23 November 2008 (UTC) (Original reflections are a collaboration by Bernie Innocenti, Walter Bender, Tomeu Vizoso, Marco Pesenti Gritti, Ben Schwartz, David Farning, Chris Ball, and Mel Chua.)
Contents
1
Awesome
2
Interesting
3
Frustrating
4
Possiblities
Awesome
It happened!
Lots of people came.
We met some extraordinary people.
We have some new partners now.
We had really nice meeting rooms.
The TurtleArt portfolio demo was cool!
The Infrastructure team got "unstuck."
Bringing people together created a lot of energy.
We actually can do this [run Sugarcamp]!
What we have now [in Sugar as a product] is better than what we admit.
We met existing volunteers.
We met new volunteers.
We got to hear very different points of view.
This week was inspiring!
We had fun people like Bernie and Yama.
We stepped forward on technical problems.
We met [Sugar] deployers like Caroline and Brendan.
We increased clarity about OLPC funding.
We got to spend time with colleagues.
We have a better definition of OLPC vs Sugar Labs responsibilities.
We got to resolve some issues in person [that we weren't able to resolve online].
We got a better picture of our social interactions.
Some people developed a lot as leaders this week, like Bernie stepping up to run Sugarcamp.
We got to see our own dysfunctional habits.
Ryan's speech about Sugar Labs solving a very hard problem that is "the future of computing" was inspiring.
Gregdek standing up and trying to get us all to work together was awesome.
The OLPC/Sugar Labs umbilical cord was cut.
Interesting
15 hour days, 6 days in a row... cause people to break down
We need better organizers than me next time. (said by Bernie)
One week passes by very quickly!
Our sessions were conducted in a hybrid format between roundtables and conferences.
Our schedule was very dynamic.
There was a mix between OLPC and Sugar Labs discussions.
Walter was coding instead of listening during some sessions! (kidding)
This is actually the second Sugarcamp - the first was in Italy about 6 months ago.
We did not do much hacking.
Everyone was optimizing their own time during the conference; sometimes this meant not listening to the speaker [and working on their laptop or having side conversations instead].
"Useful for kids" is our equivalent of "Because I Said So." We say it when we don't want people to argue with us any more.
We focus when we make something together, like when we took notes together on the whiteboard.
Dfarning was a good cop.
If we fix the problem of long-distance collaborators participating in Sugarcamp, we'll also fix the problem of quiet people not talking.
Frustrating
Too many unfocused interruptions.
The schedule slipped due to untimed talks.
People escaped points of disagreements.
The pizza was unreliable.
Action items didn't come out of technical BS (brainstorms).
The OLPC roadmap session was frustrating because it didn't leverage the Sugar Labs community.
Few people were able to contribute.
The schedule changed a lot.
At the beginning of the week, there were some difficulties between people.
There was disrespect between some people.
Infinite arguments.
Some people still think there are "sides."
Premature optimization.
"Smartest kid in the room" syndrome (a.k.a. Apollo Syndrome)
Quiet people didn't talk because we didn't ask them what they thought.
Long distance collaborators had a hard time on the phone.
Seconded. As a remote participant, I found it was hard to get attention during sometimes heated conversation. It was hard to stay focussed. It was hard to know what was happening and when (schedule changes etc). --
Morgs
14:43, 24 November 2008 (UTC)
The relationship between OLPC and Sugar Labs remains unresolved.
We didn't go into details on why we get frustrated with each other.
Good ideas got interrupted by other good ideas.
Organizing this talk caused a lot of conflict within/with OLPC.
Possiblities
Create ongoing conference committee, and assign specific duties well before events (Conf. chair, venue, food, program, speakers, sponsors, A/V, moderators, funding,...)
Ask for use of World Bank teleconferencing network (80 locations around the world) [I have some experience with this--
Mokurai
03:57, 24 November 2008 (UTC)]
Bigger conference with more people and multiple sessions divided into tracks (some selection from topics like Constructionism, Activities, Glucose, Health, Textbooks, Content, Localization, Translation, Outreach...)
Bring in teachers, researchers from education schools, subject matter experts, children!,...
Field trips to schools using XOs