Title: Marketing Team/Pitches
URL: https://wiki.sugarlabs.org/go/Marketing_Team/Pitches
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
NOTICE:
This page is a draft in active flux...
Please contribute to these contents and discuss issues on the
discussion page
.
Teachers
original draft by Walter Bender, posted on the
marketing mailing list
.
Teachers,
Imagine a classroom where instruction is complimented by learners
engaged in self-discovery; where collaboration, expression, and
reflection are integrated directly into the learning experience.
Through the Sugar Learning Platform, students appropriate knowledge by
engaging in activities that are authentic to them. With Sugar,
students at all skill levels can explore any curriculum goal more
deeply. Your students will learn and they will learn to learn.
Features:
Sugar is easy to learn: teachers and students
discover
how to use
Sugar through exploration and  collaboration—together, you learn by
doing.
Sugar can accommodate a wide variety of students, with different
levels of skill in terms of reading, language, and different levels of
experience with computing. It is easy to approach, yet it doesn't put
an upper bound on the student's personal expression.
The Sugar interface always shows the presence of other learners.
Students dialog with each other, support each other, critique each
other, and share ideas. Activities such as peer editing are just one
"mouse-click" away.
Sugar uses a "Journal" to record each student's activities: both what
they make and how they make it. The Journal serves as a place for
reflection and assessment of progress—a portfolio that can be shared
with teachers, parents, and the student as they progress through grade
levels.
Pedagogy:
Based upon 40+ years of educational research, Sugar promotes "studio
thinking": demonstrations, projects, and critiques; as well as "studio
habits of mind": develop craft, engage and persist, envision, express,
observe, reflect, stretch and explore, and understand the art world.
In the context of Sugar, studio thinking is applied not just to the
arts, but to all disciplines.
Reflective practice involves students applying their own experiences
to practice while being mentored by domain experts. In the context of
Sugar, the expert could be a teacher, a parent, a community member, or
a fellow student.
While Sugar is designed for elementary school classrooms, it will hold
the interest of middle schoolers as well.
Getting started:
Sugar is a great way to augment your classroom: it is simple; it is
powerful; it is boundless; and it is free! To learn more about Sugar
and how you can use it in your classroom, see...