Title: Marketing Team/Getting Involved
URL: https://wiki.sugarlabs.org/go/Marketing_Team/Getting_Involved
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Team Home
·
Join
·
Contacts
·
Resources
·
FAQ
·
Roadmap
·
To Do
·
Meetings
Contents
1
Join the Mailing List
2
Attend an Event
2.1
What kind of events should I be attending?
2.2
What should I be doing?
3
Participating in Marketing Team meetings
4
Become an Ambassador
There are many ways to help.  These are a few.
Join the Mailing List
Sugar Labs has a dedicated mailing list to discuss marketing related issues.  If you are interested, please read the archives and join the conversation!
http://lists.sugarlabs.org/listinfo/marketing
Attend an Event
Help by attending an event and talking about the Sugar mission.  The current list of Events is kept here:
Marketing Team/Events
.  Feel free to attend one of these, or add your own!
What kind of events should I be attending?
Educational events
.  Educators should be helping guide the direction of Sugar, and we should be bringing more of them to the table.
Developer events
.  We always need more developers, both core and activity.  Finding Python developers will be especially useful.
BarCamps
.  There are constantly BarCamps going on all over the world ([
[1]
]) and they are extremely participatory in nature.  Show up in the morning, pitch a session about Sugar, and see who comes to your talk.  A great way of getting in front of people.
What should I be doing?
Create and distribute Sugar live media
.  The best way to convince people to use Sugar is by making it easy for them to try Sugar -- and with such a broad array of choices (
Supported_systems#Starch
), this should be simple for anyone to help with.
Host a BoF session
.  Most conference have Birds of a Feather sessions.  Propose a Sugar BoF and be ready to answer lots of questions.
Offer to speak
.  Many conferences need good speakers to fill out speaker slots.  Don't be shy!
Participating in Marketing Team meetings
We hold Marketing Team meetings every week.  Come to a meeting, pick up a small task, and help move the mission forward!  Learn more at
Marketing Team/Meetings
.
Become an
Ambassador
An idea under construction,
Marketing Team/Ambassadors
.