Title: Marketing Team/Local Labs Survey 2016
URL: https://wiki.sugarlabs.org/go/Marketing_Team/Local_Labs_Survey_2016
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
In mid to late 2016, Sugar Labs Members will reach out directly to Sugar user communities ("Local Labs") and survey the way they adopt and adapt Sugar.
This repeats the 2015 survey done by Godiard (
discussion
,
results pdf
)
Questions To Ask
The questions to be asked:
where XOs are used - inside a classroom? home? library? cyber cafe?
are users allowed to take laptops away from the institution?
what has been the impact on wear and tear?
do users 'own' the laptop and take them home?
how does the institution replace them for incoming students?
For schools
How has Sugar impacted learning in later grades - e.g. in readiness to use computers effectively in secondary school learning?
How does the school charge many XOs at once?
For home users
If learners take laptops home; how is charging handled?
This is a wiki, please edit this page and add your ideas here
Local Labs To Contact
For a list of Local Labs we will contact, see
Local_Labs/Contacts
Existing Similar Information
Tony Anderson wrote in "Re: [IAEP] IAEP Digest, Vol 97, Issue 75": In Rwanda, we discovered that few homes had electricity. This would mean laptops taken home would be returned with empty batteries. The school is set up to charge the laptops in charging racks. Charging them in class time would mean running power strips all over the floor of the classroom potentially endangering students and the laptops (dragged to the floor). In Nepal, wear and tear on the XOs proved too expensive so laptops now stay in the school. After school opportunities are a good alternative, except in many schools students walk several miles to and from school. This means they can not stay back for after school activities. In schools with two shifts there would lots of time for 'before' or 'after' school activities. However, the schools do not have classroom space beyond that for the active classes. Every deployment I have encountered is different, information about them would be invaluable and would give us an opportunity to provide more effective support. I think the first priority is to find the deployments and identify a contact who could provide us with good current information.