Title: Marketing Team/Meetings/02-25-2009
URL: https://wiki.sugarlabs.org/go/Marketing_Team/Meetings/02-25-2009
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Logs are at
http://meeting.sugarlabs.org/sugar-meeting.log.20090219_1110.html
(second half - the first half is TriageTeam's meeting; meetbot kept running for both.)
pre-meeting agenda
1. Making Sugar Labs press-contactable - there's a problem with
Google's Grand Central: it's US-only (for call forwarding) at this
time. But I think I have a solution - obtain a US GSM SIM card which I
could use in Europe (if the roaming fees won't ruin me  ;-) .
What are the "requirements" for a successful "SL is press-contactable now!" solution? Not being too familiar with PR, I'm curious what we're aiming for here, exactly.
Mchua
The idea is that a journalist has a phone number to call (many journalists are short on time and are facing a deadline) which is not Walter's. (Of course, if they already know Walter, that's different.) Ideally, there should be a fallback, i.e. if I can't respond quickly, someone else can see that there is a message and call back. This kind of reactivity is why many companies use PR firms. Google's beta Grand Central seems like a good solution but unfortunately will not forward to non-US numbers as far as I can make out.
Sean
2. List of education publications I have added for press releases -
after much googling & yahooing I have identified a number of education
publications/portals. I'll submit my list for comment later today.
Can you add a link to that (hopefully wiki-editable) list at the end of the agenda item here? I'll take a look and try to add my own ideas to the list once it is up.
Mchua
Mel - there are over 75 links on the list so I mailed it to the Marketing alias. I don't think it's advisable to maintain the PR contact list on a wiki, in particular e-mail addresses...
Sean
3. Elevator pitch for teachers - I will respond to Walter's rough
draft later today & would like your input. This text may be a starting
point for the next press release's short description of Sugar Labs
(underneath "news" part of press release).
Editable version at
Marketing Team/Pitches
, from
Walter's first draft to the list
, since I couldn't find another wiki version - please merge/redirect if there's a duplicate, or let me know and I'll do it.
Mchua
4. Press release languages - I'd like to spend a couple of minutes
discussing the possibility of doing press releases in languages other
than English, in particular en, fr, de, pt. I can do French and
perhaps we can find volunteers to do the other languages? There's a
workflow aspect to this of course.
I'm guessing you meant es instead of en, above. ;)
Mchua
Yes, quite right - es not en!
Sean
5. Sugar Labs Ambassadors program - dfarning has suggested we look at
Fedora's Ambassadors program.
Also Ubuntu LoCo teams. Other non-software location-based community teams that might be worth looking at as models: Rotary, Habitat for Humanity, Boy Scouts / Girl Scouts, American Cancer Society (and other community-run fundraising/outreach efforts from the medical field).
Mchua
6. Obtaining USB sticks for Sugar on a Stick (SoaS) - have we
contacted anyone beyond Belkin, Pantone, Emtec? and where are we with
these three leads.