Title: Math4Team/RIT/Projects/Math Maze
URL: https://wiki.sugarlabs.org/go/Math4Team/RIT/Projects/Math_Maze
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Contents
1
Group Members
2
Project Description
3
Implemented Domains
4
Project Plans
5
Milestones
6
Future Plans
7
Concept Art & Design Sketches
8
How To Play
9
Lesson Plan
10
Project Files
11
Contacts
Status:
Abandoned
(No Revision Control, one xo bundle)
Group Members:
Tom Sekovski
,
Kevin Hockey
A maze style game (built upon the pre-existing game
Maze
) where at each decision moment the player has to answer a question. Some questions include: adding/subtracting numbers, factoring, word and fraction problems
Group Members
Tom Sekovski
,
Kevin Hockey
Project Description
A maze style game (built upon the pre-existing game [
Maze
]) where at each decision moment the player has to answer a question. Some questions include: adding/subtracting numbers, factoring, word and fraction problems
There will be different difficulties, ramping up as the players beats each level, which are directly related to how complex the maze is. As the player completes a level, they move on to the next level and see how fast they completed the previous one.
Teachers will be able to decide which domain to be taught at the start of the game, with the difficulty of the mazes increasing as the game goes on. So in later levels the students will be more inclined to use their math skills rather than their maze solving skills.
Implemented Domains
4.N.12
Add and subtract (up to five-digit numbers) and multiply (up to three digits by two digits) accurately and efficiently.
4.N.4
Select, use, and explain models to relate common fractions and mixed numbers (1/2, 1/3, 1/4, 1/5, 1/6, 1/8, 1/10, 1/12, and 11/2), find equivalent fractions, mixed numbers, and decimals, and order fractions.
4.N.7
Recognize classes (in particular, odds, evens; factors or multiples of a given number; and squares) to which a number may belong, and identify the numbers in those classes. Use these in the solution of problems.
Project Plans
Must implement:
Question Generator for each convention
Achievements and "award box"
Local Scoreboard - saves your best times etc.
Re-implement GB mode differently
Milestones
GB mode re-implemented for one player, and only the arrow keys.
Most concept art finished.
Random "correct" and "incorrect" answer functions finished.
Future Plans
Online play and leaderboards
Local Multiplayer
Allow teachers to select he number of levels
Implement the GUI
Implement different types of math problems
Allow teachers to chose which types of problems to use
Concept Art & Design Sketches
How To Play
Important: This game is designed to be played by one player on an XO gameboy style.
Players start at the beginning of the maze and work their way towards the finish (Green Square.) There will be a question at the top of the maze which is for the entire level. Example: Numbers that are divisible by 4. Every time they approach a "decision moment," where they get to choose to go up or down, left and right, each direction will have a possible answer.
This way students can either be good at mazes and learn the correct answer that way, or they can get to the end by using their math skills. Positive reinforcement will be implemented with sound effects for going the right way. Students will know they've gone the right way because the number on the maze will disappear.
Lesson Plan
1. Implemented Domains:4.N.12, 4.N.4, 4.N.7
2. Preparation/Materials:
Each student must be instructed on how to use the laptop in gameboy mode, using the up/down right/left arrow pad.
The students should already know the implemented domains as this game is more of a way to re-affirm what they already know through exploring their puzzle solving skills.
Each student should have their own XO.
3. Goals:
This game is meant to be a way in which students can cement concepts they have already learned, but they'll be doing it in a way where they'll also be having fun and learning puzzle solving skills by doing it in a maze-like environment.
Have the students review multiplication, fractions and factorization.
Have the students build puzzle solving skills.
Project Files
For now you can download and test the source at [
Maze
]
Latest XO bundle [
MathMaze
]
For source code extract the files from the bundle, same as a .zip
-If you're interested in continuing the project please contact someone below-
Contacts
Tom Sekovski
: txs1546@rit.edu
Kevin Hockey
: kdh7733@rit.edu