Title: Math4Team/Projects/MathQuest
URL: https://wiki.sugarlabs.org/go/Math4Team/Projects/MathQuest
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Math Quest
Contents
1
Math Quest
1.1
Project Description
1.2
Goals
1.3
Levels
1.3.1
Bridge Building Level
1.3.2
Map Level
1.3.3
Watch Level
1.3.4
Tower Gate Level
1.3.5
Tower Level
1.3.6
Boss Level
1.3.7
3D Maze Level
1.3.8
Water Race Level
1.4
Resources/References
1.5
Contacts
Project Description
Math Quest (tentative title) is a Math Blaster inspired game (set in a fantasy environment rather then a space one) being developed for the Math4 Project.  Like Math Blaster, Math Quest aims to be a game that combines conventional gameplay of several disciplines (platformer, shoot 'em up, etc) in very basic settings with math, to make an educational game that is actually fun to play, not just educational.  Even if it only delivers 50%-75% of the educational value of a full 'educational game', the increased playability leads to greatly increased playtime which negates that drawback, as well as instilling a general liking for math for the students who play.
Goals
At least 5~10 different levels, with varying difficulty and length (some being more complicated then others). Each level will utilize a different gameplay genre, such as platformer, puzzle, etc.
Picture-based storyline to tie levels together without relying on large amounts of text
Ability to save and load progress
Balance gameplay based on testing with 8-11 year olds
Integrate at least 10 different Mass 4th grade standards into the gameplay.
Levels
The game includes a variety of levels of different sizes, each covering different math standards.
Bridge Building Level
4.N.18 - Use concrete objects and visual models to add and subtract common fractions.
The player is tasked with building a bridge.  Presented with pieces of wood of various sizes, the user must use the exact amount to complete the bridge.
Status: Complete.  Potentially add slight changes to better represent the standard for fractions.
Map Level
A map of the area is shown and the player must identify the coordinates where the tower is located.
Status: Complete.
Watch Level
4.M.3 - Identify time to the minute on analog and digital clocks using a.m. and p.m. Compute elapsed time using a clock (e.g., hours and minutes since…) and using a calendar (e.g., days since…).
The player is presented with two different watches (one being broken and one representing the current time), and they must calculate the amount of time that has elapsed since the watch broke.
Status: Complete.  Possibly make it so times are only in increments of 5 minutes, to be slightly easier/less confusing
Tower Gate Level
4.N.1 - Exhibit an understanding of the base ten number system by reading, modeling, writing, and interpreting whole numbers to at least 100,000; demonstrating an understanding of the values of the digits; and comparing and ordering the numbers.
4.N.14 - Demonstrate in the classroom an understanding of and the ability to use the conventional algorithms for addition and subtraction (up to five-digit numbers), and multiplication (up to three digits by two digits).
4.P.1 - Create, describe, extend, and explain symbolic (geometric) and numeric patterns, including multiplication patterns like 3, 30, 300, 3000, ….
The player must find the "password" to the tower by solving math problems which are presented.  The password consists of eight digits, and the questions specify which digits the answer should go in.  Once each of the digits of the password are entered correctly the tower can be entered.
Status: Complete.
Tower Level
4.N.2 - Represent, order, and compare large numbers (to at least 100,000) using various forms, including expanded notation, e.g., 853 = 8 x 100 + 5 x 10 + 3.
4.N.11 - Know multiplication facts through 12 x 12 and related division facts. Use these facts to solve related multiplication problems and compute related problems, e.g., 3 x 5 is related to 30 x 50, 300 x 5, and 30 x 500.
4.N.13 - Divide up to a three-digit whole number with a single-digit divisor (with or without remainders) accurately and efficiently. Interpret any remainders.
This is a platforming styled level where the main objective is to control the hero to climb up a tower.  The hero is holding a number which is modified by hitting operations falling on the screen ("x2", "+5", etc), and each floor of the tower contains one or more "gaps" for the hero to travel through with numbers or mathematical problems on either side.  You can only travel upwards when the number the hero is controlling is between the two values on either side of the gaps.
Status: Gameplay elements complete, with some slight tweaking needed possibly.  Graphics work in progress.
Boss Level
Fight the evil Count Mathenstein on the top of the tower!
Status: Concept in works, not much coding done yet.
3D Maze Level
Explore a maze while answering questions, answer properly to go the right way
Status: Concept and some coding completed, needs graphics work.
Water Race Level
Race across the water, answering questions correctly increases your speed.
Status: Graphics engine mostly complete, math question aspect needs to be implemented.
Resources/References
For project references please refer to our
References Page
Contacts
Eric Mallon
(Team Lead):
ericmallon@sugarlabs.org
Tyler Bragdon
:
tylerb@sugarlabs.org