Title: My Weather Station
URL: https://wiki.sugarlabs.org/go/MyWeatherStation
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Contents
1
Description
2
Project Status
3
Releases
4
Structure
5
Goals
6
To Do List
7
Completed
8
Concept Images
9
Helping Out
10
Our Group
Description
MyWeatherStation is an activity for the user to track the weather in their area as a way to learn about the components of weather. Eventually, sensors will be implemented to track the temperature and humidity in the area on a more accurate level.
Project Status
This activity is currently in an early Alpha phase. It is under development for the RIT Fall Semester 2013.
Releases
Pre-Release 1.0 (Hearty Laugh)
Structure
https://github.com/Zanarama/MyWeatherStation/blob/master/README.md
Goals
The major goals for this product in the current phase of development are as such.
Have an interface for the user to select from a gallery of images depicting weather conditions, in order to plot the one that best suits their environment.
Have that information couple with a temperature and humidity sensor, to create an accurate weather profile.
Have that Weather profile publish to the Journal, as well as to a calendar interface that the user can use to go back through the weather from earlier days.
Within these goals are a number of individual tasks, that will be solved over the course of development for the project.
To Do List
Get buttons to work so that the images can be clicked and will track weather
Make calendar screen
Publishing to journal
Sensor functionality (Getting the sensors, and then making them work)
Building a menu selection screen
Having stable development and deployment environment
Completed
There is an activity that runs on the XO, it doesn't do much, but it is there
Concept Images
Helping Out
If you would like to contribute to this activity, please go to the github project page.
https://github.com/Zanarama/MyWeatherStation
Our Group
Left to Right:  Rob Clifford, Chris Cordi, Suzanne Reed, Greg Ekstrom