Title: Open Educational Resources
URL: https://wiki.sugarlabs.org/go/Open_Educational_Resources
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Open Educational Resources (OERs) are digital replacements for textbooks available under some form of Free license, such as Creative Commons. There are many projects to create OERs, including the Sugar Labs
Replacing Textbooks
project, and projects of state and national governments, NGOs, professional associations, and individual contributors.
Most OERs are PDFs of existing content, including printed textbooks, but there are also innovative projects to produce interactive OERs using a variety of software, including Sugar, Logo, and Smalltalk, and to rethink educational content based on research into child development and computers in education. Much more research and development will be needed in this direction.
Globally, there is a need for OERs in several hundred subjects. Each country needs about 100 for 12 grades, usually divided into semesters, with five subjects taught at a time. Local content is needed for topics such as health, history, geography, literature, civics, and agriculture in more than 190 countries, some of which can share large portions. Materials for learning to speak, read, and write numerous languages are needed.
A rather different concept is
Open Access Books
, where a version of content is available at no cost, and another with additional services is available for a fee. In general, OAB products do not permit modification and republishing, although the choice of license is a hot topic for discussion. This is viewed in the publishing industry as a logical step forward from Open Access publishing of research journals, and is aimed at book-form research publications.
Public Domain OER logo from Wikimedia Commons
Contents
1
External Links
1.1
Countries
1.2
Sources and Directories
1.3
Commercial Publishers of OERs
1.4
Discussions
1.5
Other OER Logos
External Links
Countries
Bangladesh is the first country we know of to digitize a complete set of textbooks for grades 1-12. Resources listed below.
Uruguay is seeking up to 1,000 digital learning resources in a Request For Proposals (RFP). The Sugar Labs
Replacing Textbooks
program wanted to offer some to them, but it turned out to be impractical.
South Korea
has announced
a plan to digitize all of its textbooks and to provide all students with computers.
Sources and Directories
In no particular order, except that Bangladesh gets pride of place. Please add more if you find them. How do these 
facilities compare with one another?
1,000+ Open Textbooks and Learning Resources for All Subjects
Bangladesh National e-Content Repository
in Bangla. Story:
PM opens e-content repository
. 30,000 teachers, 148 government organisations and 50 local and foreign non-government organisations. 50,000 pages, planned to increase to 5,000,000.
e-Book ::. ই-বুক জগতে স্বাগতম
in Bangla. Story:
PM opens online version of textbooks
Access to Information (A2I) Project of the PM’s Office and the National Curriculum and Textbook Board (NCTB) jointly transformed 33 primary level and 73 secondary level textbooks into e-books in collaboration with the UNDP.
National Curriculum & Textbook Board, Bangladesh
now with a set of downloadable materials for all grade levels and a variety of subjects in both Bangla and English.
Curriki
free and open K-12 resources
The
Librarian Chick catalog
of free digital educational resources
The
California Free Digital Textbook Initiative
at high school level
The
Shuttleworth Foundation's Free high school science texts
Connexions
free and open K-9 textbooks from the Shuttleworth Foundation's Siyavula project.
College Open Textbooks
MERLOT
(Multimedia Educational Resource for Learning and Online Teaching)
Waveplace OERs for Haiti
College Open Textbooks Community
Commonwealth of Learning
Open educational Resource Foundation
LeMill
Web community for finding, authoring and sharing open educational resources in multiple languages
Peace Corps World Wise Schools
OpenCourseWare Consortium
at university level
Math Links
- educators sharing interesting resources around the teaching and learning of mathematics
Open Tapestry
110,000 listings. Replaces OER Recommender.
Florida Standards - resources
- collection of links to reviewed OERs - some are commercially created, some are open
OLPC Australia Moodle server
Alan Kay videos on computers in education
150 Free Textbooks
- list by subject, many are high school (Grades 9-12)
First-year Spanish resources, college level
OER Africa
Includes links to
other sources of OERs
.
Commercial Publishers of OERs
It's true. Free OERs plus paid services.
CK-12
] Primary and Secondary
Flatworld Knowledge
College
Discussions
UNESCO WSIS Platform of Communities Open Educational Resources (OER)
World Bank Zunia OER discussion
Other OER Logos
UNESCO OER Logos
under Creative Commons-BY-SA licenses permitting modifications, including further translations.
UNESCO English OER logo
Remix of UNESCO English OER logo