Title: Oversight Board/Meeting Minutes-2020-12-23
URL: https://wiki.sugarlabs.org/go/Oversight_Board/Meeting_Minutes-2020-12-23
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Contents
1
Agenda for SLOBs Meeting
2
Meeting Minutes
2.1
Role Call
2.2
Report from project representative (Conservancy liaison)
2.3
Report from Ombudsman
2.4
Finance Report
2.5
Google Code-in Replacement Discussion
2.6
Sugar Labs Mission/Goals Discussion
2.7
Communication Channels
2.8
Time and Place of Next Meeting
2.9
Closing
Agenda for SLOBs Meeting
2020-12-23 at 19:30 UTC on Jitsi
Meeting Minutes
Date: 2020-12-23
Role Call
Present:
Walter Bender
Jui Pradhan
Peace Ojemeh
Claudia Urrea
Ibiam Chihurumnaya
Community:
Samson Goody
Absent:
Lionel Laské
Report from project representative (Conservancy liaison)
We need a new representative to replace Devin.
Claudia will assume this duty.
Treasurer...
Walter (temporary)
Alex?
Secretary
Walter
Report from Ombudsman
Nothing from Pattie
Finance Report
Walter to prepare a report for the next meeting.
Report from Ibiam about his contract to manage activities.
Google Code-in Replacement Discussion
Samson will take the lead and will organize a separate series of meetings with the goal 4-6 orgs in Q4 2021.
Sugar Labs Mission/Goals Discussion
What is our mission?
MISSION
Sugar Labs® is a volunteer-driven member project of Software Freedom Conservancy, a nonprofit corporation. Originally part of the One Laptop Per Child project, Sugar Labs coordinates volunteers around the world who are passionate about providing educational opportunities to children through the Sugar Learning Platform. Sugar Labs® is supported by donations and is seeking funding to accelerate development.
callaurrea
Sugar Labs produces, distributes, and supports the use of the Sugar learning platform, a free software system that is freely available to anyone who wants to use or extend it.
Claudia: Mission in the context of remote learning??? Small things we can delivar... as oppose to being too ambitious to get anything done.
Claudia: periodic events... maybe every month an event??? Things that are more scaffolded... respond to need.
Claudia: we mentor kids and get them to do something concrete.
Claudia: driven by something that is relevant... something we can commit to.
Walter: learning software and a learning community
What are our goals?
A place for people to learn about FOSS and great tools.
Sugar support for the existing OLPC deployments.
Sugarizer support for schools that use mobile technology.
Music Blocks for schools in Japan, kids in Peru, music teachers.
Do we want to concern ourselves with deployment?
If so, we need to be professional about it.
Do we want to use an OKR model?
Support on RPi, Sugar on a Stick on Ubuntu, Fedora, Trisquel
Jui: What is our Social Media story?
Samson reviewed the history. He will share the strategy doc.
Twitter, Facebook, LinkedIn, YouTube...
Communication Channels
How do we want to communicate? IRC, Matrix, JITSI, Slack, all of the above?
Samson and Claudia recommend:
https://discord.com/
650 kids used discord with Claudia's project.
Samson uses it with GNOME.
To be discussed next time.
Time and Place of Next Meeting
2021 January 06 (Wednesday) at 19:30 UTC
https://meet.jit.si/sugarlabs
Next time: bring to the table ideas for monthly project.
Closing