Title: Oversight Board/Meeting Minutes-2020-07-08
URL: https://wiki.sugarlabs.org/go/Oversight_Board/Meeting_Minutes-2020-07-08
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Contents
1
SLOBs Meeting
1.1
Report from project representative (Conservancy liaison)
1.2
Reports from Ombudsman
1.3
any reports from project teams, Google Summer of Code
1.4
Acknowledge Recycle USB
1.5
Music Blocks in Peru
1.6
James and Ibiam Sugar Activity Job
1.7
Methods for Engaging to Board
1.8
GSoC Feature Share
1.8.1
Lionel | Sugarizer
1.8.2
Walter | Music Blocks
1.8.3
James
1.9
time of next meeting
1.10
closing
SLOBs Meeting
2020-07-08 at 20:00 UTC
Attendance: Devin, Claudia, James, Walter, and Ibiam
Report from project representative (Conservancy liaison)
No Report
Reports from Ombudsman
No Report (James has not heard from Ombudsman)
any reports from project teams, Google Summer of Code
All the evaluations have been completed.
Some students treat GSoC like a job, and do not try new things.
Music Blocks code is getting much cleaner and easier to read.
Acknowledge Recycle USB
Report by Walter Bender
From email:
> I was asked by Recycle USB (
https://www.recycleusb.com/
), the
> organization that periodically sends us USB keys in bulk to
> distribute, if we could put some sort of ACK on our website. Would
> like to discuss this with the board at the next meeting.
> 
> FWIW, I just got a batch of 5000 8gig USB keys, suitable for
> distributing SOAS et al. from Recycle USB.
Discussion:
It would be best if we could have a method for distributing these USB keys.
It may be nice to partner with an org, such as FSF for small scale distribution. (Walter and Devin to reach out to FSF contacts.)
Music Blocks in Peru
Report by Walter Bender
From email:
> Not sure it merits discussion at the SLOB meeting, but I wanted to
> give everyone a heads up that the ministry of education in Peru will
> be distributing on the order of 800000 Android tablets to children in
> the coming months. They will be including Music Blocks (translated
> into Aymara and Quechua). I've been discussing the possibility of
> including Sugarizer in future releases as well.
Discussion:
Update from Walter: They need an Android app. Lionel will help Walter with this.
Link from Lionel on the Sugarizer Cordova Packager: www.github.com/llaske/sugarizer-apkbuilder
James and Ibiam Sugar Activity Job
Going to meet soon now that James is feeling better.
Methods for Engaging to Board
Discussion:
Walter mentions that others may want to attend the board meeting.
James suggested that it helps our productivity when the board meets privately.
Claudia suggests that every other meeting could be available to the public via open invitation.
Devin suggests that the agenda be published on the wiki before the meeting.
Devin also says that we need to be careful, when using Jitsi, that no unwanted intruders come to the meeting (i.e. Zoom bombing)
James says that not very many members have responded to request for who would like to attend the board meetings.
Ibiam suggests that maybe we use IRC for the open-invitation meetings.
GSoC Feature Share
Lionel | Sugarizer
Deployment of new servers via easy code
Walter | Music Blocks
Input via MIDI keyboard
Musical staff as a graph (like cartesian)
Export JS
James
Students are "chugging along".
Students working on engagement with Debian -- needs to reach out to Debian again.
Students are amazing. Observation that some students do not have opportunity to innovate.
time of next meeting
Meeting on 2020-07-22
Agenda to be published at
https://wiki.sugarlabs.org/go/Oversight_Board/Meeting_Minutes-2020-07-22
(then overwritten with the minutes at meeting)
closing