Title: Oversight Board/2009/Meeting Minutes-2009-09-25
URL: https://wiki.sugarlabs.org/go/Oversight_Board/2009/Meeting_Minutes-2009-09-25
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Contents
1
Agenda
2
Decision Panel
2.1
Questions for the Decision Panel (as referred to in the log
3
Election
4
Bolzano meeting
5
Fund raising update
6
Log
In attendance:
SLOB members: walter, dfarning, tomeu, cjb. (bernie was connected but seemingly absent)
Community members included: sdziallas, caroline, bemasc, CanoeBerry, SeanDaly, mtd, lfaraone, bogstad, and other community members.
Agenda
Decision Panel re Sugar on a Stick
Elections
Bolzano meeting
Misc. update re fund-raising
Decision Panel
We appointed a decision panel (by a vote of 3 for, 0 against, 1 abstain, 3 absent) with the following mandate:
"Investigate the situation of how SoaS should be treated by Sugar Labs, and related questions, including answers to the following:
"Should Sugar Labs be a GNU/Linux distributor, rather than just an upstream producing Sugar releases?"
"Should SL be neutral about distributions containing Sugar, and refuse to endorse one over another?"
"Should 'Sugar on a Stick' be a phrase that SL asks its community to avoid using unless they refer to the SoaS-Fedora distribution?"
Any other question the Decision Panel deems required to provide an answer to the original question:"Is the current SoaS going to be the primary way Sugar Labs distributes a Sugar-centric GNU/Linux distribution?"
Members of the Decision Panel are:
Sebastian Dziallas
Luke Faraone
Martin Dengler
Bill Bogstad
Faisal Khan
Benjamin M. Schwartz
Samuel Klein
Sean Daly
Tabitha Roder
Caryl Bigenho
Daniel Drake
Abhishek Indoria
We neglected to assign a date by which they are to report back. I recommend we give then 2 weeks. Will discuss via email.
Questions for the Decision Panel (as referred to in the log
Add proposed Decision Panel questions here
"Should Sugar Labs be a GNU/Linux distributor, rather than just an upstream producing Sugar releases?"
"Should SL be neutral about distributions containing Sugar, and refuse to endorse one over another?"
"Should 'Sugar on a Stick' be a phrase that SL asks its community to avoid using unless they refer to the SoaS-Fedora distribution?"
Any other question the Decision Panel deems required to provide an answer to the original question: "Is the current SoaS going to be the primary way Sugar Labs distributes a Sugar-centric GNU/Linux distribution?"
Election
We have
14 candidates
.
Ballot will be sent out by dfarning on 2009-10-01 via
Selectricity
to all members with an email on file.
Bolzano meeting
Since dfarning had to leave, we deferred this discussion.
Fund raising update
Walter reported on various grants in play and other opportunities. See the meeting log for details.
Log
Meeting Log