Title: Oversight Board/2018-2020-candidates/Jaskirat Singh
URL: https://wiki.sugarlabs.org/go/Oversight_Board/2018-2020-candidates/Jaskirat_Singh
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Hello prodigious enthusiasts, I am Jaskirat Singh from India pursuing as a volunteer in the Sugar Labs organisation.
I have been involved with Sugar Labs since 4 years but started my journey as Google Code In participant and then got officially became the community member in 2017.Serving as a Google Code In Mentor, GSOC Mentor and ceremonial contributor at the Sugar Labs.
Working apart from Google Code In, Google Summer of Code and various projects in Sugar labs I feel like that there is a need of a strong foundation for making the hands of the community to expand and span the entire world with creation and innovation.
Well I see that since long the Oversight board of Sugar Labs has not been actively participating in discussions especially SLOB meetings and Sugar Labs Outreaching goals which stand out as low as per organisation expanding growth since many times back. So we need to expand and outreach more about the Sugarlabs productivity and create a good impact on social diversity.
On behalf of this  I would love to stand out as one of the delegate for the candidate seat in SLOB and helps in framing out the things in good way.
I would focus on the long term Vision by forecasting and acting accordingly that how the organisation will look to the near future with leading initiatives and various key indicators. I have contributed to the Sugar Labs in many senses and will keep on working for the betterment of the community hardly matters that sense in terms of development contribution or outreaching. So I would love to work upon those things that does not exist in the community as such one is still in progress of planing of Sugar Labs Summit as one of the annual goal within the community. Not only this but enhancing the User Experience of the products of Sugar Software will also be one of my target in the coming future.
Looking forward towards positive response on behalf of one of the delegate of candidacy seat in the SLOB.
I can be reached out at jaskiratsingh@sugarlabs.org