Title: Oversight Board/Meeting Minutes-2012-05-30
URL: https://wiki.sugarlabs.org/go/Oversight_Board/Meeting_Minutes-2012-05-30#2._Updates_to_the_Local_Lab_wiki_.28Local_Labs.29
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
In attendance:
SLOB members:
walterbender
,
alsroot
,
cjl
,
icarito
Community members including: kaametza (Laura Vargas)
Contents
1
Agenda
1.1
Local Labs
1.1.1
1. Updates to the TM policy (Trademark)
1.1.2
2. Updates to the Local Lab wiki (Local_Labs)
1.1.3
Proposed modification
2
Log
Agenda
Local Labs
Local Labs
We discussed a motion by Walter to modify the
Trademark
and
Local Labs
pages in the wiki as per the recommendation of the SFC. See below. The motion was seconded and passed by a vote of 5 for and 2 against.
Specifically:
1. Updates to the TM policy (
Trademark
)
The SLOBs can elect to allow "Local Labs" to use the "Sugar Labs" mark with or without written permission. Allowing Local Labs to use the mark without permission is easier to administer and gives Sugar/Conservancy greater distance from any potential problems. And, the SLOBs can exercise some discretion in which Local Labs get listed in their directory without explicitly taking on the burden of vetting and supervising every Local Lab.
Tony recommends replacing the current entry on "Sugar Labs Local Labs" with the following language:
"Sugar Labs Local Labs
The popularity of the Sugar platform has inspired numerous unaffiliated volunteers, developers, and deployment specialists to use Sugar and educate others on how to use Sugar. We affectionately refer to these user communities as "Local Labs," and allow them to refer to themselves as Sugar Labs <Region Name> without written permission. For a partial listing of Sugar Labs Local Labs, see http://......."
2. Updates to the Local Lab wiki (
Local_Labs
)
We should update this wiki entry as well. Tony took a stab at editing; see below:
"Sugar Labs appreciates the efforts of Local Labs in making the Sugar platform relevant to their local communities. Local Labs around the globe do the following, and more:
Adapt the technology and pedagogy to an area's culture and resources (e.g, developing activities and content specific to a region)
Help translate Sugar to the local language(s)
Support Sugar deployments in area schools
Create a local community devoted to the Sugar Labs principles, making Sugar more open and sustainable
Provide for communication,between the local communities and the global Sugar Labs community
Develop Local content and software that can be used not only for local purposes but also for the overall community
Host, co-host or partner in the organization of conferences, workshops, talks and meetings related to the use or development of Sugar
Sugar Labs seeks to foster a sense of ownership and associated entrepreneurship with the user communities who support Sugar. Sugar Labs, as the official representative of the project itself, maintains responsibility for setting clear goals and maintaining any necessary infrastructure needed by the project as a whole. In turn, Local Labs dedicate themselves to using Sugar to serve their local communities. But, what is the "business model" for a successful Local Lab? It seems that some necessary conditions for success would be:
A university connection as a local human resource
A local pilot user group from which to learn
A local passion or sub-goal that provides a rational for the work
Bi-directional communication with Sugar Labs and other Local Labs
A sustainable and well-defined entrepreneurship model
A program to reach out to local free-software communities and local industry
A marketing program or roadmap
What are other considerations? And are these initial "conditions" correct? Your input would be of great value to the efforts of Local Labs everywhere. Please join the discussion.
[content, directory, etc.]
And, at the bottom of the page:
"Sugar Labs Local Labs are not officially endorsed by or affiliated with Sugar Labs or the Software Freedom Conservancy."
Proposed modification
A second motion was made by Icarito, but not seconded:
"To consult with Tony if the text 'Sugar Labs Local Labs are not officially endorsed by or affiliated with the Software Freedom Conservancy.' would work equally as well and if so, to use it" ?
Walter has consulted with Tony,
who responded "I can't approve this edit."
.
Log
http://meeting.sugarlabs.org/sugar-meeting/meetings/2012-05-30T21:08:10