Title: Oversight Board/2009/Meeting Minutes-2009-10-30
URL: https://wiki.sugarlabs.org/go/Oversight_Board/2009/Meeting_Minutes-2009-10-30
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
In attendance:
SLOB members: walter, tomeu, cjb. mchua, CanoeBerry, SeanDaly
A number of community members attended the meeting.
Contents
1
Agenda
2
Discussion
3
Requesting a decision
4
Convening a meeting
5
Voting
6
Next meeting
7
Log
Agenda
discuss decision-making process for the oversight board
Discussion
This page explains the current SLOBs decision-making procedure. See the
talk page
for discussion on these procedures, including proposed amendments. The current decision-making procedure was designed and approved on
October 30, 2009
with absentee votes from Sean Daly and Bernie Innocenti arriving via email after the meeting.
Requesting a decision
Any Oversight Board member can put a request for a decision on the next SLOBs meeting agenda. Community members can contact an Oversight Board member to put their requests for a decision on the agenda.
Convening a meeting
An Oversight Board meeting can be called in the #sugar-meeting IRC channel by a quorum of 4 SLOBs members present and participating in that channel in realtime.
Voting
The window for voting on a decision posed to SLOBs begins when the motion is proposed at a SLOBs meeting. The voting window closes 96 hours from the end of the meeting during which the motion is proposed.
Only current SLOBs are eligible to vote. Once a vote is made, it cannot be changed or withdrawn.
If a majority of SLOBs members (4 or more) vote yea before the voting window closes, the decision is an official SLOBs yes. For all other cases, the decision is an official SLOBs no.
IRC (during official SLOBs meetings, with IRC meeting logs) is the primary medium for the casting of SLOBs votes, with email for absentee ballots and the wiki as the archive of record.
Next meeting
Friday, 6 November 2009 15:00 UTC
Log
Meeting Log