Title: Oversight Board/Project Motion
URL: https://wiki.sugarlabs.org/go/Oversight_Board/Project_Motion
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
MOTION
First, the short version:
1. If your project helps SL, is all freely licensed, and has a wiki page 
with certain info on it, you can apply for project status by emailing 
slobs/iaep your wiki page URL and saying "here's our project page, 
please raise a motion to make us a project."
2. If SLOBs passes the motion (4 votes of +1), you are a project. This 
gets you a sidebar listing, do-it-yourself infrastructure access, and 
permission to call yourselves a SL project. (In addition, projects can
work with Sugar Labs on fund raising.)
3. Projects are obligated to update their project page and email that 
project page URL to the list during the last month of each Sugar release 
cycle. That's it.
4. If a project doesn't do this (SLOBs will check), its project status 
is revoked, and it loses the sidebar listing and the ability to call 
itself a SL project. Projects who have their status revoked may reapply, 
see (1).
Now, the fine print:
Being a SL project means you get (1) listed in the sidebar, (2) full use 
of SL infrastructure's resources (though projects must do the 
administrative work themselves, they'll get machine access) if the 
project isn't already using them, and (3) permission to refer to 
yourselves as a SL project (you can request TM usage separately).
Being a SL project does NOT mean that (1) SL teams are obligated to 
fulfil all your requests, or that (2) SLOBs or SL teams can tell you 
what to do, or that (3) anyone else will step up and make your project 
happen - people working on a project still need to step up and drive and 
do all the work.
The only thing SLOBs can do is remove "SL Project" status, which (1) 
removes a project from the sidebar and (2) the project not being able to 
refer to itself as a "SL project" any more. (Infrastructure privileges 
shouldn't be removed except in cases of gross misconduct.)
SL projects must:
work towards the mission of SL in some way,
http://wiki.sugarlabs.org/go/Sugar_Labs#Mission
contain only code and content released under approved licenses,
http://wiki.sugarlabs.org/go/Trademark#Approved_licenses
To request status as a SL project, create a project wiki page that 
contains (at minimum) the following information, and submit it to SLOBs 
as an agenda item ("here is our project wiki page, can we be a project?")
(these are directly from the version of
http://wiki.sugarlabs.org/go/Sugar_Labs/Project_Guidelines
as of this 
writing)
Who the new project would serve and who will lead the project
What the goals and scope of the new project would be
When the project can be considered a success
Where the project will lead and where it will fit into Sugar Labs
Why the idea warrants the creation of a new project within Sugar Labs
How the project will benefit Sugar Labs and the Sugar ecosystem
The number of active contributors
The state of the project compared to its goals
Documentation of how the project is working for the community
The current method of governing the project
A schedule and plan to achieve remaining goals and milestones
This then becomes a motion that needs 4 SLOBs +1s to pass, just like any 
other motion.
The only obligation of a project is to submit a status report, in the 
form of emailing iaep a link to an updated project wiki page with 
up-to-date answers to all the same above questions, during the last 
month of each sugar release cycle. One week after each Sugar release 
cycle, SLOBs will check which projects have fulfilled that obligation, 
renew the project status of all projects that have, and revoke project 
status of all projects that haven't. Projects that haven't can simply 
reapply.