Title: Point-and-Click-Arthur
URL: https://wiki.sugarlabs.org/go/Point-and-Click-Arthur
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Contents
1
Description
2
Structure
3
Controls
4
Releases
5
Graphics and Sound
6
Additional Ideas & Features
6.1
Completed
6.2
In progress
6.3
Wishlist
7
Spring 2012 Milestones
8
Potential Problems
9
Contacts
10
Getting the Latest Snapshot from Git
11
Links and Resources
Description
This project will be a children's "point and click" adventure based on the King Arthur legend. The story follows King Arthur as he tries to collect all of his Knights of the Roundtable from their various quests and adventures. The player will play the role as King Arthur's royal investigator and will help the king along the way. The game will be heavy in graphics which will add to the atmosphere and story. The game's primary coding language will be Python, using the pygame library to aid in graphics management. The game's target audience and device is the OLPC and children.
The player is Arthur's Royal Detective. The goal is retrieve all the knights who are in the middle of their most famous quests for a banquet at Camelot.
Localisation is possible via a YAML file, which can be edited.
Structure
The game is a "point and click" game in the same vein as Monkey Island and King's Quest. The user reads dialog, hunts for an item on screen, and figures out who to use the item on. This causes a reaction and new areas open, etc.
It is the hope of this project to use it as a reading aid.
Controls
All input is done with the mouse.
Releases
Coming soon
Graphics and Sound
Sprite animations were created in MSPaint.
Backgrounds are public domain images modified in Adobe Photoshop using "Cut Out" filter and modified based on needs
Sounds are public domain sounds. See the
attribution
file for more information about attribution and useage of sounds.
Additional Ideas & Features
Completed
Created sprite based graphics
Point and click interface
Screen changing engine, complex, event driven animation engine
It collection, item useage, and triggered events
Making materials perishable to increase difficulty
Making the program more intuitive so that it can be easily learned
Finished the logic/GUI elements
In progress
Implementing YAML translation
Working on OLPC
Wishlist
Ability to save progress and load
Screen transitions between events
Voice Acting?
Spring 2012 Milestones
Week 6:
Script fully written
Week 7:
Working prototype for point and click driven events
Week 8:
Working flying dove animation when hovered. Basic screen changing. All background images collected.
Week 9:
Built point and click engine
Week 10:
Further perfected engine
All graphics done
All public domain sounds collected
Potential Problems
Porting the game to the OLPC and having it run flawlessly.
Contacts
Ned Blakley
Getting the Latest Snapshot from Git
Point and Click Arthur is available under the
Open Software License
.
To get the latest working version from Git, open a terminal and enter this command:
git clone git@github.com:FOSSRIT/point-and-click-arthur.git
Links and Resources
Activity Page
Git Repository