Title: Produce Puzzle
URL: https://wiki.sugarlabs.org/go/Produce_Puzzle_Roadmap
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Contents
1
Description
2
Standards
2.1
Lesson Plan
3
Group Members
4
Compatability Issues
5
Playability Issues
6
Wishlist
7
Completed Goals
8
Links
9
Contact Information
Status:
Ported to Fortune Engine, Stalled
Ported to Fortune Engine, Stalled
Group Members:
Abbi Honeycutt
,
Kennedy Kong
The object of the game is to solve a system of equations with unknowns represented by fruits. The player is given the column sums and row sums, and from there he must determine the value of each fruit. The game difficulty can be changed, and it ranges from solving 3x3 fruit equations, all the way up to 9x9 fruit grids.
Description
Produce Puzzle is a game created by Matthew Michihara, Elizabeth Deng, and Aaron Macris with the python programming language using the pyGTK and pygames libraries. It was created as an educational game during the University of Southern California's "Code for a cause OLPC Hack-a-thon" targeting users in 3rd world countries. The object of the game is to solve a system of equations with unknowns represented by fruits. The player is given the column sums and row sums, and from there he must determine the value of each fruit. The game difficulty can be changed, and it ranges from solving 3x3 fruit equations, all the way up to 9x9 fruit grids.
During the Summer of 2010 a Fortune Engine version of the game was created. It has different functionality and is intended to show how to solve systems of equations.
Standards
Possibly fulfills standards:
[1]
4.P.3 (Determine values of variables in simple equations, e.g., 4106 – x = 37, 5 = y + 3, and s – y = 3)
[2]
4.P.6 (Determine how change in one variable relates to a change in a second variable, e.g., input-output tables)
[3]
4.G.3 (Recognize similar figures)
Lesson Plan
OLPC_lesson_plan.doc
Group Members
Abbi Honeycutt
Kennedy Kong
Fortune Engine Version:
Kevin Hockey
Compatability Issues
Needs a new Sugarized icon
Bundling needs to be compatible with new Sugar build
Needs to be added to Git repo
Playability Issues
More dynamic ending
No visual notification user wins the game (fireworks, something exciting)
Should move on to new game automatically
More scalable
Ability to change fruit max values on the fly
Ability to have some fruit values solved for them
Does not spawn all fruits all the time
Wishlist
Timer
See how long they've played
Race against clock mode
Fill more of screen
Scales itself similarly to how the maze game does
New fruit icons
Completed Goals
Fixed issues with resuming game after "minimizing" (5/14/09)
Now correctly identifies itself as ProducePuzzleActivity (5/14/09)
Sugar toolbar at the top (5/18/09)
Links
PP Fortune Engine Git Repo
Git Repo
(this is where newest code will be available)
Original source at Google Code
(this is the older code)
Produce Puzzle page on OLPC Wiki
Contact Information
Abbi Honeycutt's
user page
Kennedy Kong's
user page