Title: Replacing Textbooks
URL: https://wiki.sugarlabs.org/go/Replace_Textbooks
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
NOTE:
The content of this page is considered
DEPRECATED and OBSOLETE
It is preserved for historical research, along with its
talk page
.
This project is no longer active as of May 2016.
Sugar Labs has created a program for
Replacing Textbooks
with
Open Educational Resources
(OER), that is, digital e-learning materials under Creative Commons licenses. The program will also develop new
curriculum
materials integrating Sugar and other software into every subject at every level.
Mokurai
is the Program Manager. You can contact him at
mokurai@sugarlabs.org
.
Temporary server
for collaborative creation of OERs
Permanent server location to be announced.
Contents
1
Rationale
2
Planning
3
Plan Ceibal project
4
See Also
5
External Links
Rationale
The XO-1 costs much less than textbooks in developed countries. This has led to the proposal to replace all textbooks with Open Educational Resources (OERs), with the aim of both improving education and saving money that could then be applied to such necessities as electricity and Internet for the XOs.
Mokurai
has started a project at Sugar Labs to do just that. In April 2011 the booki software from FLOSS Manuals went live, and Sugar Labs set up a testing server to prepare the way for rolling out the project, which is to be opened up to all users as soon as we can manage it.
The use of OERs means that teachers and students can engage in continuous improvement, rather than being completely dependent on commercial publishers and school boards for occasional updates of textbooks. It further means that materials can be translated into the language of any community that wishes to undertake the work, with the more advanced students translating from the official language of instruction (often English or French) to the official languages of their country (Swahili in Kenya, for example), and to their own local languages (Maa among the Maasai, for example). However, Spanish will be our first priority, to support Uruguay, Perú, and other countries of Latin America.
Planning
Initial tests will include projects in Calculus by and for Young People, language teaching, discovery learning, the economics of education and ending poverty, and other subjects. Ultimately, we will need textbooks for every school subject in every country for every age in every required language, plus teacher training, versions of a subject (such as health, civics, history or geography) specific to each country, and more. Please look at the OLPC and Sugar manuals at
FLOSS Manuals
to get an idea of how this can work, and the first set of titles to be translated using FM's booki software.
We need to collect curriculum standards for each country (or state or province) and for each subject, as set out by subject matter expert organizations. We need a library of existing textbooks, and of content that can be remixed to create new textbooks.
Although there is substantial research on computers in education, there is no systematic research program on what can be done using one-to-one computing to teach existing courses better, that is, with deeper understanding by students, or to teach subjects at earlier ages.
Plan Ceibal project
Plan Ceibal in Uruguay
has put out a
Request for Proposals
for up to 1,000 digital educational resources. Sugar Labs is contacting possible partners for a bid. We have a
translation of the requirements sections
of the RFP.
It has turned out to be impractical for Sugar Labs to bid in this process. We will offer free OERs to Uruguay and others separately.
See Also
Turtle Art Tutorials
Open Educational Resources
Open Access
External Links
The
Replacing Textbooks fundraiser
on Crowdrise
Mokurai's
Replacing Textbooks
blog, also available at
Planet Sugar
.
Earth Treasury
UNESCO takes this idea very seriously, and has asked
Mokurai
to
open a discussion
on it on their WSIS Web site.