Title: SoaS Blueberry Notes
URL: https://wiki.sugarlabs.org/go/SoaS_Blueberry_Notes
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Sugar on a Stick v2 Blueberry
contains a number of new features that improve the overall user and learning experience. Here is an overview of the most notable ones:
Sugar 0.86
Sugar on a Stick v2 Blueberry ships the latest
Sugar
release, 0.86.3. It features:
redesigned toolbars;
improved wireless networking;
EPUB file support for e-books (
Read
);
better Gnash support for Adobe Flash content;
easier keyboard configuration;
support for tabbed browsing (
Browse
);
and an easy way to update to the latest Activities (Control Panel).
Detailed release notes for Sugar 0.86 are available
here
.
ZyX-LiveInstaller
A frequent request we received concerned a means of installing Sugar to a hard disk.
We teamed up with the
zyx-liveinstaller
developer in order to provide:
seamless installation of your personalized environment onto your computer's hard disk;
it saves any changes that you made to your Sugar on a Stick system;
and the installation does not even require a reboot.
Instructions
E-Books
Sugar on a Stick v2 Blueberry supports viewing e-books through
Read
, including the increasingly popular .epub file format. Historical classicals and interesting literature for young readers are provided through an additional
page
.
Thousands of additional e-books can even be easily accessed through the included
Get Internet Archive Books
Activity.
A
screencast
of the e-book sharing process is also available.
Activities
Sugar on a Stick v2 Blueberry also includes updates to the standard collection of Activities for children and many new ones. An example is
SocialCalc
, a spreadsheet activity that allows users to do complex mathematical calculations. Sugar on a Stick v2 Blueberry also ships the
TamTam
activity suite, which takes the learner on a journey through sound and music, beginning with a simple musical toy and progressing up to a sophisticated sound synthesizer. Other activities, such as the very popular
Physics
and
TurtleArt
, have been updated. Sugar's rich collection of Activities are available for download from
Sugar's Activity Library
.
Based On Fedora
Sugar on a Stick v2 Blueberry is based on the latest version (F12) of the
Fedora operating system
, a GNU/Linux distribution which showcases the latest in free and open source software.