Title: Sugar on a Stick/ZyX-LiveInstaller
URL: https://wiki.sugarlabs.org/go/Sugar_on_a_Stick/ZyX-LiveInstaller
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Proposed for Archive
.
It has been proposed that this page be regarded as an archive. It could be marked
"Archive"
or it could be moved to an
Archive location.
--
Inkyfingers
18:52, 4 March 2012 (EST)
Please contribute to the discussion on the
talk page
.
ZyX-LiveInstaller allows you to install Sugar from either a LiveUSB device or LiveCD media to a system or external disk, in order to create a traditional operating system installation on disk (or removable media such as SD or USB storage devices).
Note:
This is
not
a method for creating a Sugar-on-a-Stick (LiveUSB) image. Although you can install to an external USB drive/stick, resulting in an installation that similarly boots your system to the Sugar UI. The difference is that the resulting system is not a 'Live' system; it uses a normal filesystem instead of a compressed read-only filesystem and a read-write overlay.
IMPORTANT WARNING:
This software will
overwrite entire partitions or disks
—as well as your bootloader—during installation. It is
currently
intended only for users that are familiar with the risks and possible complications of installing a GNU/Linux distribution to system disk. If you need a dual-boot configuration, you will need to configure
grub
yourself.
1-)Note: Use these instructions for f13 Mirabelle
Does not work prior to soas-i386-20100702.15.iso
for f14 (rawhide )Soas Nightly Composes
for soas-i386-20100702.15.iso and later you need to use a device mapper lvm2 for root and swap and ext4 for boot
Use
liveinst
command to
format and install
the 8 GB USB (this installs but presently does not log on at the present time)
Then use
zyx-liveinstaller
to make the install on the same USB. (gparted will NOT do partitioning correctly)
A Workaround-satellit 07/04/2010
Skip this step for f12 Blueberry
*In running SOAS root terminal
su
yum install zyx-liveinstaller gparted
2-)To use the ZyX-LiveInstaller:
Boot your target computer with Soas-v3 Mirabelle
[1]
; SoaS-2-Blueberry
[2]
or USB Sugar-on-a-Stick
[3]
;
Run ZyX-LiveInstaller:
Start the Terminal activity;
Type:
zyx-liveinstaller
Check that you have room on the target drive:
Run
gparted
from within ZyX-LiveInstaller
(For 4GB USB) In Partitioner:
select all existing partitions with mouse: Hit Delete
Edit/Apply All Operations
select unallocated partition
New Primary Partition: ext4 ; New Size 200 ; Label /boot
New Primary Partition: ext4 ; New Size 3.57GB (Balance Available) ; Label /
Edit/Apply All Operations (USB Flashes)
Exit Partitioner (hit X in top right corner of window)
While still in Zyx-LiveInstaller:
Read and follow the simple wizard, choosing destination volumes/partitions for root, boot, and swap.
next-choose root volume (hit button)
select xxxxx-part2
next -chose boot volume (hit Button)
select xxxxx-part1
next -chose swap volume (hit Button)
Optionally create a separate partition for swap space, typically 1–2 times the size of the RAM in your system. This will allow the use of hibernation (suspend-to-disk, via pm-hibernate command run from root terminal shell).
(This is optional we do not do it for USB)
next -review options
next - install
Installation begins
You will need at least a single partition for the root filesystem that is greater than 2GB. (Some disks labeled and sold as 2GB may not be quite large enough.)
create a separate partition for the /boot filesystem, at least 42MB in size
Note: formatting using the partitioner is not required; (does not work for VirtualBox use: /boot 200 ext2; / 3000 ext4; balance: linux-swap-
scroll down to find linux-swap
)
Notes:
This is a
destructive
install:
The contents of the disks or partitions you choose will be overwritten entirely
;
During installation, you are free to use other activities;
After installation completes, you may remove the LiveUSB or LiveCD, and continue using the newly installed system
without rebooting
!  This means that anything done with the system before, during, or after installation persists into the installed system;
For more information, see the upstream project website
[4]
.