Title: Sugar Labs/Volunteer Funnel
URL: https://wiki.sugarlabs.org/go/Sugar_Labs/Volunteer_Funnel
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Contents
1
The Volunteer Pathway
2
How to improve at each step
2.1
Become Aware of Sugar and Finding Sugar
2.2
Try and successfully use Sugar
2.3
Decide Sugar is Sweet
2.4
Understand that Sugar is a Community Project supported by volunteers
2.5
Initial Engagement
2.6
Wanting to help
2.7
Being part of a task/team/group/getting a mentor/buddy
2.8
Successfully completing a task
2.9
Take responsibility
2.10
Become a Sugar Labs Leader
The Volunteer Pathway
Volunteer Funnel drawing made at SugarCamp Paris09.
We believe that new volunteers typically follow a path similar to the following:
Become aware of Sugar
Find Sugar
Try and successfully use Sugar
Decide that Sugar is "sweet",
i.e.
, valuable for education, interesting, etc.
Understand that Sugar is a Community Project supported by volunteers
Have an initial engagement with the Community
Want to help, or at least, Be There for Sugar
Become part of a Task/Team/Group or get a mentor
Successfully complete a task
Contribute ideas, take more responsibility, provide leadership, help others, etc.
Examples of contributing ideas, taking responsibility, and providing leadership include:
Edit the wiki
Test an Activity
Pilot at a school
Mentor a student
Maintain an Activity
Develop core software
Create lesson plans and align with standards
Create training materials and manuals
Coordinate Sugar presence at conferences or running Sugar Camps
Write blogs, press releases, or articles about Sugar
Write grant proposals
How to improve at each step
Become Aware of Sugar and Finding Sugar
Our
Marketing Team
is working on this with press releases, etc.
Try and successfully use Sugar
Our
Development Team
is working on this by making
Sugar on a Stick
more robust. We also need to keep working on installation instructions and different and every easier ways to get it working on different hardware platforms.
Decide Sugar is Sweet
Our goal is to have storytelling work;
video
and the
main website
should all support people understanding how Sugar is used in education, and why it's different and better for 5–12-year-old learners.
A concrete action is to add the
Help Activity
back into Sugar on a Stick so that people can easily find the manual, etc.
Understand that Sugar is a Community Project supported by volunteers
It is probably not obvious to first time Sugar users that its not another commercial project.  We want to add info the Help Activity to let people know its a Community Project.
Initial Engagement
Right now people have to goto an in person meetup or conference or join the mailing list.  The vision is to make it easier with "Ask a Question". This would be a link from the Help Activity to a web page with a form. The person puts a question and their email address into the form. The question is sent to IAEP and anyone there can reply answering their question or pointing them to the answer. If we succeed in involving the person in a dialog we can invite them to join the community and IAEP list.
Wanting to help
Our theory is if we involve people in a dialog with the community and they learn about Sugar, our mission and that we are a volunteer community project they will want to help.
Being part of a task/team/group/getting a mentor/buddy
Right now its a big jump from wanting to help to really engaging and being part of something. We are looking for ways to make this easier.  One step is to add the email address of a real person to each section of "Getting Involved".
We would also like to create geographical contacts.
Successfully completing a task
Getting your first task complete is hard.  We hope that contacting a real person in the step above will help.
Take responsibility
We want *you* to be a leader.  Examples include
Become a mentor
Team leader
Pilot at a school
Activity maintainer/creator
Core developer
Public relations
Lead a Sugar Camp or a presence at a conference
Become a Sugar Labs Leader
First step is to read
Starfish and Spider: The Unstoppable Power of Leaderless Organizations
.