Title: Sugarizer Saint-Ouen deployment
URL: https://wiki.sugarlabs.org/go/Sugarizer_Saint-Ouen_deployment
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Contents
1
Location
2
History
3
First phase of deployment
4
Devices and software
5
Second phase of deployment
6
Third phase of deployment
7
More information
Location
The city of
Saint-Ouen
is located in the northern suburbs of Paris.
The population is about 50,000 people.
There is about 5,400 children in schools: 2,200 in kindergarten, 3,200 in primary schools.
There is about 200 teachers in 23 school.
History
The Saint-Ouen deployment started in 2014 with the deployment of 25 XO-4 at the Mendela school by
OLPC France/Eduvelopers
.
In 2017, the 25 XO-4 have been replaced by 25 tablets Lenovo Tab 2 A10-30 on Sugarizer OS, bought with the help of the L'Oreal Fondation.
Children playing with Sugarizer in Mendela school at Saint-Ouen
Considering the positive feedbacks of teachers on field and its wish to deploy Android tablets in schools, the Saint-Ouen city decided in 2018 to launch a large deployment of Sugarizer in schools.
A partnership was set between Saint-Ouen city, the Inspection Academique (depending of French minister of education) and OLPC France/Eduvelopers.
First phase of deployment
The first phase of deployment has started in 2019 with a deployment in 3 schools: Mendela, PEF and Petit-Prince. It means about 50 class and 1000 children.
Three training sessions animated by IT team from Saint-Ouen city and OLPC France/Eduvelopers was planned between March and May with teachers of each school.
Teacher training workshop in March 2019
Devices and software
Tablets deployed are Samsung Galaxy Tab A 2018. Each schools received 2 chariots with 27 tablets in each and a WiFi . Each school is connected to a broadband internet connection.
Devices deployed at Saint-Ouen
Sugarizer OS is deployed on each tablets with about 20 android application launchable from Sugarizer OS.
Sugarizer Server is deployed on the city infrastructure using Docker.
Sugarizer Server architecture at Saint-Ouen deployment
Second phase of deployment
The second phase of deployment has started in september 2019 witch is a deployment in 5 new schools: Frédéric Joliot Curie, Irène Joliot Curie, Jules Michelet, Victor Hugo and La Fontaine. It means about 50 new class and about 1100 new children.
About 480 Sugarizer OS tablets was deployed between phase 1 and phase 2.
During the second phase, two training sessions for teachers was planned into each school. The first training session was planned at the beginning of school year and is intended to explain usage of tablets and Sugarizer. Training sessions are conducted by IT team from Saint-Ouen city, OLPC France/Eduvelopers and the mentor on digital technology for teachers (eRun) from Inspection Academique.
The second session was planned during Q2 2020 and was dedicated to listen teacher feedbacks but has been cancelled due to the pandemic.
Third phase of deployment
The third phase of deployment was planned in 2nd semester 2020 but due to the pandemic was postponed to 2nd semester 2021. The objective is to deploy the 5 leaving schools in the city: Alexandre Bachelet, Anatole France, Emile Zola, Jules Valles and Paul Langevin. It means about 1500 new children and 300 new tablets.
For these new schools it was decided to use Sugarizer Server hosted on
Sugarizer School Portal
instead of servers deployed on the city infrastructure.
More information
Deployment updates are posted on
Sugarizer twitter account
.
Contact
Lionel Laské
for more information.