Title: Sugar on a Stick/Strawberry
URL: https://wiki.sugarlabs.org/go/Sugar_on_a_Stick/Strawberry#Download_locations
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Project Home
·
Get Involved
·
Contacts
·
Resources
·
FAQ
·
Roadmap
·
To Do
·
Meetings
released 22 June 2009
Strawberry
Sugar on a Stick - Strawberry
a Sugar environment you can carry in your pocket
Sugar on a Stick v1
Strawberry
has been superseded by the
v2 Blueberry release
as of 8 December 2009. See
Sugar on a Stick/Downloads
for the current release.
Release Notes - last software update: 24 June 2009
This document provides instructions for preparing a Sugar on a Stick (SoaS) installation. It also contains a list of known issues and sources of further information, for example how to use a Boot Helper CD for very old PCs. For more detailed information, please check the
SoaS wiki page
. For more general information, please see the
Frequently Asked Questions (FAQ) page for Sugar on a Stick
.
The Sugar on a Stick Strawberry release is based on Fedora 11 with the latest updates as of June 22. It also features a recent Sugar learning environment, namely
version 0.84
, including 40 Activities to enrich the learning experience. Hundreds of Activities are available for download from the
Sugar Activity Library
. This release includes Fedora updates, new Sugar features like
View Source
and file transfer, supplementary sample content, which is available in the Journal, and usability improvements. Apart from the default
Fructose
activities, the following table of additional Activities are included in this release.  (See the Sugar
Taxonomy
for an explanation of these codenames.)
Contents
1
Sugar on a Stick - Strawberry
1.1
Get it!
2
Sugar on a Stick/Downloads
2.1
Windows Users
2.2
GNU/Linux Users
2.3
Mac Users
2.4
XO-1 & Virtual Machines
2.5
Boot it
2.5.1
Helper CD
2.6
Use it
2.7
Help Us
2.7.1
Known Issues
2.7.2
Beta Builds
2.7.3
Custom Builds
Fructose Activity
Honey Activity
Honey Activity
Browse
CartoonBuilder
Memorize
Calculate
Colors
Moon
Chat
FlipSticks
Paint
Etoys
FreeCell
Physics
Image Viewer
InfoSlicer
Poll
Jukebox
IRC
Record
Log
JigsawPuzzle
SliderPuzzle
Pippy
JokeMachine
Speak
Read
Labyrinth
StoryBuilder
Terminal
Library
ViewSlides
Turtle Art
Write
Get it!
Note:
The contents of this section have been transcluded from another page,
Sugar on a Stick/Downloads
:
Sugar on a Stick/Downloads
Sugar on a Stick
is a
Fedora
®
Spin
operating system featuring the award-winning
Sugar Learning Platform
.
Sugar on a Stick will run on
any 64-bit Notebook, Laptop, or Desktop computer,  with a minimum of 1GB RAM, that can run Linux, Windows or macOS, using a USB thumbdrive or stick, as a
Live USB
,
a 32-bit computer with the TOAST version of Sugar (Trisquel on a Sugar Toast).  See
Trisquel On A Sugar Toast
.
a Raspberry Pi 2 or 3, using a microSD card, or;
any computer as a virtual machine.
You can use Sugar on a Stick to demo Sugar almost anywhere without disturbing the contents of the computer you use, and if people like what they see, you can
install
Sugar on a Stick to their hard drives or other sticks from the demo stick.
x86_64 (64-bit)
armhfp Raspberry Pi 2 or 3, see
How to install
.
How to quickly demonstrate: (
English
), (
en español
)
Fedora and the Infinity design logo are trademarks of Red Hat, Inc.
Windows Users
Download the latest version of Fedora
LiveUSB Creator
from
http://fedorahosted.org/liveusb-creator/
and extract it;
Plug a target USB flash drive into your computer (minimum 1-gigabyte);
Launch
LiveUSB Creator
;
Select
Sugar on a Stick (Strawberry)
in the drop-down menu on the upper-right side of the
LiveUSB Creator
window;
Set the
Persistent Storage
slider to the maximum so you can save your Sugar work onto the USB device;
(You may allocate as much storage as there is capacity on your device.  You may allocate less than the maximum, if you want to use some of the device storage when not booting Sugar.)
If you repeat this installation on a device after having saved some Sugar work or changes, all Sugar work and changes will be lost.
Select your USB flash drive as the target;
Click the
Create Live USB
button and then wait for the process to finish (the time required will depend mostly on your download speed);
Close the
LiveUSB Creator
program;
When ejecting the USB flash drive from the computer, first stop the device with the
Safely Remove Hardware
dialog.
More information is available
here
.
GNU/Linux Users
Download the SoaS iso image from
http://download.sugarlabs.org/soas/releases/soas-1-strawberry.iso
,
Install these three packages:
syslinux
,
isomd5sum
, and
cryptsetup
(
details here
),
Download this script:
http://download.sugarlabs.org/soas/releases/livecd-iso-to-disk.sh
Change mode to make the script executable,
chmod +x livecd-iso-to-disk.sh
Plug your target USB flash drive into your computer,
Unmount the USB flash drive (e.g.,
sudo umount /dev/sdb1
),
Execute the script with the following command:
sudo ./livecd-iso-to-disk.sh --overlay-size-mb 300 --home-size-mb 160 --delete-home --unencrypted-home soas-1-strawberry.iso /dev/sdb1
Note:
In this example, your USB device node is assumed to be sdb. Verify this before confirming the command. Also, you might want to increase the home or overlay size if you have more than 1 GB of space.
More detailed information is available
here
.
Mac Users
Apple Macintosh users will need to have access to a GNU/Linux or Windows machine to prepare their USB flash drive.
Create your SoaS as described above;
Download the boot helper disk:
http://download.sugarlabs.org/soas/releases/soas-1-boot.iso
Put both the CD and the USB flash drive into the machine;
Turn the Mac on and press at the chime the "C" key;
It should boot from the CD and continue to use the USB flash drive from this point.
Note:
This is an experimental method to run SoaS on a Mac. Not all hardware configurations might be supported, as it is also noted in the
#Known Issues
section below. If you run into issues, you might want to consider using a virtual machine. See
#XO-1 & Virtual Machines
section below.
More information is available
here
.
XO-1 & Virtual Machines
The use of SoaS on the OLPC XO-1, as well as in virtual machines, is currently in an experimental state. Instructions for both categories are being developed here for
XO-1
,
VirtualBox
, &
VMware
. In the meantime, you might want to refer to the information on the general SoaS
wiki page
.
Boot it
Insert the USB drive into a USB port on your computer. Ports directly connected to the motherboard (usually on the back of the computer) are more likely to recognize the device at boot time.
Set the option to boot from USB in your machine's BIOS and then start up the computer. This can be done in a number of ways and will VARY from machine to machine. What you are looking for is the term "Boot Loader" or "Boot Order" or something to that effect. You may have to play around with the settings quite a bit to achieve success. The BIOS in not a graphical user interface. Your mouse will not work, generally, in the BIOS. Use the arrow keys. Read the help lines for each BIOS option. If you've not gone into the BIOS before, don't be afraid, you can't do too much damage there if you pay attention.
Here's a video of the BIOS on my
compac tc4400
.
You should see the Sugar logo if the drive is booting. Proceed to the
Use it
section.
Helper CD
If your machine doesn't support booting from USB devices, then download the following soas-1-boot.iso and burn it to a CD.
ImgBurn
and
DVD flick
are some freeware, .iso burning tools for Windows.
Download the boot support helper CD image at
http://download.sugarlabs.org/soas/releases/soas-1-boot.iso
.
Use
Windows Explorer
to name your USB flash drive FEDORA (from the Properties dialog for your device), otherwise it won't be recognized by the boot-support CD.
Put both the boot-support CD and the USB flash drive in your computer and let it boot from the CD.
Use it
Once you have successfully launched Sugar on a Stick, you should explore the Sugar Learning Platform. There is a
guide to Sugar
with help pages dedicated to most activities.
Do try running Sugar on more than one machine, so you can enjoy its collaboration features.
Sugar on a Stick uses by default the
English (USA)
keyboard layout.
If you need to change this, you need to use the Terminal activity.
Terminal is not in the default Home View ring (Favorite activities), to reach it,
Switch to 'List view' (the far right switch button on the Home View toolbar),
Find the Terminal Activity (more than half-way down in the list, or use the Search box on the left of the toolbar),
Click on the Terminal icon to launch the activity,
Enter
system-config-keyboard
at the command-line prompt and press the <Enter> key,
Select your keyboard choice in the new window that appears and click the 'OK' button.
Help Us
Please share your feedback with us; it will help us to improve Sugar in subsequent versions of SoaS. Join the
Sugar on a Stick (SoaS)
mailing list:
http://lists.sugarlabs.org/listinfo/soas
, or you can always join the
It's an Education Project
mailing list:
http://lists.sugarlabs.org/listinfo/iaep
.  See all our
communication channels
and our
Getting Involved
pages.
If you encounter any hardware-related issues besides the ones
listed below
, please consider joining our
hardware effort
. Please submit the specifications of your hardware so that we work together with 'upstream' to resolve any issues.
Finally, you might also consider submitting bug reports at our
bug tracker
(you would need to create an account).
Known Issues
Sugar on a Stick Strawberry is based on
Fedora 11
, the latest release. Consequently, it contains a number of known issues with Fedora images that should be mentioned.
Recently, problems with ATI graphics hardware, as well as various Mac models have been reported. This was resolved by adding the
nomodeset
parameter to the kernel arguments.
If you encounter image flickering or are not able to get past a black screen, it might be worth pressing the <Escape> key at the blue screen, which appears for a second before the normal boot process starts. You'll be presented a short menu, at which you can directly press tab, then just add the
nomodeset
argument in the appearing line, and then boot by pressing the <Enter> key.
For more information, please refer to the
list of common F11 bugs
.
Beta Builds
Developers and testers can help us debug the next version. See
Sugar on a Stick/Beta
.
Custom Builds
Preliminary instructions how to customize and compose an image can be found
here
.