Title: Sugar Labs/Communication channels
URL: https://wiki.sugarlabs.org/go/Sugar_Labs/Communication_channels#Mailing_Lists
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Community Home
·
Join
·
Contacts
·
Resources
·
FAQ
·
Roadmap
·
To Do
·
Events Calendar
Contents
1
Mailing Lists
1.1
General Lists
1.2
Regional Lists
1.3
Project Lists
1.4
Developer Lists
1.5
Systems Infrastructure
1.6
Starting a new list
2
Chat on Matrix
3
Social Media
4
Sugar Labs contacts
5
Mail
6
Historical channels
6.1
Blogs
6.1.1
Blog aggregators
6.1.2
Sugar Comets
6.1.3
Sugar microblogs
6.1.4
Press
6.1.4.1
Searches
6.1.5
Possible tools for a new community site
6.2
Forums
6.2.1
Support Forums
6.2.2
General Discussion
6.3
Jabber Networks
6.4
Video
Connect with Sugar Labs
Sugar has a growing community that is ready to help you. Because users and contributors span the globe, a key element to the project is communication.  Mailing lists, social media, Matrix, Jabber, email, and this wiki provide quick and easy ways to communicate.
The Sugar Labs marketing team needs your help.
Please join with us to build these new learning tools.
Mailing Lists
Visit
lists.sugarlabs.org
to see all the Sugar Labs mailing lists.  After registering your email address with the mailing list, you will receive the discussion posts or digests of the posts made to the list server.  Each list maintains an archive of all its posts.  A link to the archive is available on each list's info page. For example, here is a link to the
Community news archive
.
You may respond to a post in the archive by clicking the author's email address (at the top of the posting). This will invoke the mailto: link to the list's address with the post's subject line and message identifiers to place your post properly in the thread.
See also the One Laptop per Child (OLPC) mailing lists and archives at
lists.laptop.org
.
General Lists
It's an Education Project (IAEP)
Our main mailing list for discussions of Education and Sugar
(See a graphic
Self Organising Map
for an overview of the past weeks' discussions on the list.)
Marketing
Where we discuss marketing and outreach for the Sugar Learning Platform and its parent organization, Sugar Labs
Community News
The Sugar community news weekly digest
Regional Lists
Colombia
Sugar Labs Colombia discussion
olpc-Sur
A list frequented by teachers using the Sugar platform in Latin America
Project Lists
Dextrose
Deployments' XO operating system
Sugar on a Stick (SoaS)
Development of live Sugar distributions
Summer of Code
A list to support the Google Summer of Code open source development project
Fourth Grade Math
A list supporting the development of activities for the
Math4 Project
School Server
A list for discussions on the School Server, XS (
X
O school
S
erver)
Developer Lists
Sugar-devel
The Sugar and Activity developers' email list
(See the graphic
Self Organising Map
archive for an overview of past months' discussions.)
Bugs
E-mail feed from the Sugar Labs bug tracking system
Sugar-Desarrollo
A Spanish language Sugar developers' mailing list
olpc
The
Fedora-OLPC Project
for OLPC XO operating systems that include a Sugar distribution
devel
The OLPC system hardware and software developers' email list
Systems Infrastructure
Systems
A list for those supporting the
Sugar Labs systems infrastructure
Starting a new list
The best way to start a new mailing list is to begin a discussion on a current list that's related to the topic. Once the discussion becomes active, ask for a separate list for that topic.
When a critical mass of people are regularly discussing the same topic, email the following information to the IAEP list:
The name for the new mailing list, with alternative names in case the first one is taken
A description of the list, its purpose, and why it's needed (being able to say "we've been talking on this other list for a while, and the discussion has grown too big, see these archive links" is helpful)
The name/email of the list administrator, and of at least one other moderator (minimum, one admin and one moderator)
At least 10 names/email addresses of people who want to be the initial subscribers
Chat on Matrix
Read more on
Matrix
.
Social Media
Mastodon
Twitter/X
LinkedIn
YouTube
Instagram
Facebook
Sugar Labs contacts
Sugar Labs has a
board of directors
. The executive director is Devin Ulibarri (devin AT sugarlabs DOT org).
We also have an ombudsman who will help mediate any disputes (ombudsman AT sugarlabs DOT org).
Journalists can call +1-617-702-4088 or e-mail Sugar Labs Public Relations (pr AT sugarlabs DOT org).
See
Sugar Labs/Contacts
and our
community contacts
index for additional contacts.
Mail
You also may contact us by mail:
Executive Director
Sugar Labs, Inc.
2021 E Ben White Blvd #240-1271
Austin TX 78741
USA
Historical channels
Note: The following are historical channels, which need to be cleaned up and archived. Some are still alive today, and some are not.
Blogs
If you have a blog or blog post to highlight, see
Blogs/Reviews
.
Blog aggregators
Planet Sugar Labs
Planet Sugar is a collection of personal blogs by Sugar Labs contributors
Contact
mailto:planetmaster@sugarlabs-nospam.org
for adding more blogs to this feed.
Planet OLPC
See
OLPC:Blogs
These collect posts from a number of popular blogs on Sugar and OLPC.
WordPress blog posts with an olpc tag
-
Live Bookmarks feed
Sugar Comets
Blogs that might join the "planets"
some random teacher and deployment blogs related to Sugar
http://xo-cesaraguero.blogspot.com/
-
Live Bookmarks feed
http://formando-artistas.blogspot.com/
-
Live Bookmarks feed
http://miguela-xo.blogspot.com/
-
Live Bookmarks feed
http://aprendiendodelaxo.blogspot.com/
http://xomimundo.blogspot.com/2010/08/bicentenario-del-paraguay.html
-
Live Bookmarks feed
http://www.ceibalflorida.blogspot.com/
-
Live Bookmarks feed
http://www.recursoscompartidos38.blogspot.com/
-
Live Bookmarks feed
http://bloguentarios.blogspot.com/
-
Live Bookmarks feed
http://bhagmalpur.wordpress.com/
- Small deployment of XOs in India
Sugar microblogs
http://identi.ca/group/sugar
-
Live Bookmarks feed
http://somosazucar.status.net/
- Somos Azucar community microblog
Press
olpc news
Searches
Engaget search with a olpc tag by date
Engaget search with a sugar tag by relevance
Possible tools for a new community site
See notes from
#sugar-meeting 02 February 2011
shapado
Ask Questions Format
http://shapado.com/plans
lifestream
Lifestream is a plugin built on top of the WordPress platform. It allows you to effortlessly integrate your social network activity across the web with your blog.Out of the box, Lifestream is just streams in RSS/Atom feeds and prettying them up, but deep down it's a very flexible platform allowing developers to integrate any kind of activity they desire.
eurekastreams
As an enterprise knowledge worker using Eureka Streams, you can build a personal profile and activity stream. Use your profile to share information about your skills and background, and your stream to post messages and links related to work.
Group streams provide teams and communities with the ability to generate conversation around events that are critical to their performance or objective. By capturing these events in the stream, team and community members can use a keyword search to quickly access information and make informed decisions.
The activity page and the start page provide knowledge workers with a simple, yet powerful, set of capabilities used to view and manage the information within Eureka Streams to make more effective decisions. On your activity page, you can view all employee and group streams you are following and easily group and filter your streams to fit your work style.
The start page is your own personal homepage. You can customize it with apps that display streams of activity or news feeds from both external and internal sources.
planetplanet
Planet is an awesome 'river of news' feed reader. It downloads news feeds published by web sites and aggregates their content together into a single combined feed, latest news first.
fedora
reposted to
http://twitter.com/fedora
This is the official feed for the Fedora Project, a global free software community sponsored by Red Hat.
RSS 2.0 Feed
Facebook
is perhaps somewhat controversial, but...
There is a Facebook group page for Sugar
[1]
that could use some love.
Dailymotion
is a place where we had been accumulating Sugar videos (in part because they accept .ogv).
Not sure we ever properly set up our channel but see
[2]
.
Forums
Support Forums
forum.laptop.org
- The official OLPC community support forum.
Total posts: 10815 • Total topics: 2384 • Total members: 6398 •
28 October 2011
FORO RAP-CEIBAL
- (en español) The
RAP-Ceibal
support forum.
Social Help
- A new forum for asking questions about Sugar and Sugar Activities.
Former sites
—these have a short history of problems, but are no longer preferred by Sugar Labs.
http://getsatisfaction.com/sugarlabs
, &
http://launchpad.net/soas
General Discussion
OLPC News Forums
- A popular forum site.
Total posts: 31763 • Total topics: 3823 • Total members: 2408 •
28 October 2011
Jabber Networks
While the OLPC XO-1 is designed with mesh wireless networking built in (where users can connect to each other without having a central wireless internet router/connection), Sugar users around the world may not be able to connect with others using the platform unless it's through the Internet, since mesh networking relies on a concentration of users (for example, in a classroom, school or business environment).
Jabber networks link Sugar users to each other in order to chat, interact and collaborate. There are global Sugar Jabber networks, or regional ones hosted by organizations and individuals around the world. You can choose whichever Jabber network you wish to connect to. Connecting Sugar to one of these networks will greatly enhance your Sugar experience.
See
olpc:Jabber
and
olpc:Community Jabber Servers
Video
We have a
Sugar Labs channel at Dailymotion
.
Dailymotion
also has an OLPC-compatible portal at
olpc.dailymotion.com
with videos encoded with the free OGG Theora/Vorbis codecs, and they have OLPC-relevant content.
OLPC TV
is dedicated to collecting videos related to OLPC. The site needs help recoding videos to play in Gnash, the Free Flash viewer.
Video Using Sugar
and
Video Testing Sugar
have links to other videos as well.