Title: Sugar Summer Program
URL: https://wiki.sugarlabs.org/go/Sugar_Summer_Program
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
NOTE:
The content of this page is considered
DEPRECATED and OBSOLETE
It is preserved for historical research, along with its
talk page
.
Team Home
·
Join
·
Contacts
·
Resources
·
FAQ
·
Ideas
·
To Do
·
Meetings
Contents
1
Sugar Institute Vision
2
Regional Institutes
3
RIT FOSS Co-op Vision
4
Opportunity
See
http://www.mail-archive.com/iaep@lists.sugarlabs.org/msg04163.html
for background and reference;
also,
http://www.mail-archive.com/iaep@lists.sugarlabs.org/msg04201.html
.
This venture will depend on creative, community support and the cooperative spirit of participants.  Please join and
contribute ideas here
, on this page, and on the
It's an Education Project
mailing list.
Sugar Institute Vision
Fill a house with design students, education students, and computer science students all coming together to work on Sugar. Small Scale version of this is
Maple Sugar
.
Something with work and living space for about 20 people to come together to work together for brief periods (a couple of weeks to a couple of months).
It could be used for training deployment teams, some weeks for hackers to work together, some weeks....
It could become a place for deployments and deployers to hire Sugar developers and designers for specific tasks.
Flophouse, or Sugar Shack, would be a precursor to an Institute to see if this is something that is useful, cost effective, and manageable.
Sugar Labs would be a technical sponsor.
Give smart, passionate students, who might not be familiar with open source and community development, a chance to immerse themselves in the culture.
Provide a catalyst for small groups, loosely affiliated with Sugar Labs, to form, and work on interesting projects that might feed back upstream.
Regional Institutes
Rochester, New York, USA (see below)
Barre Open Systems Institute
in Barre, Vermont, USA with Paul Flint,
http://www.mail-archive.com/iaep@lists.sugarlabs.org/msg04175.html
Sugar Labs DC
, Washington, DC, USA with Jeff Elkner,
http://n2.nabble.com/-Marketing--Fwd:-Sugar-Labs-DC-Summer-Workshop-tt3004044.html
RIT
FOSS Co-op Vision
Rochester Institute of Technology, RIT
, Rochester, New York, USA
Modeled after
http://www.hfoss.org/index.php?page=hfoss-summer-institute
Support students such as those in
olpc:RIT honors seminar, developing for the OLPC XO
working on
Math4Team/RIT
who want to continue or earn required RIT Co-op credits.
350-hour work commitment by students per term.
External to RIT Co-op program Supervisor(s) to oversee and grade the student work.
Prefer that students locate in Rochester, NY rather than disperse. (distance co-ops an option)
Paid positions when funding is available, unpaid otherwise (Student's must commit to documenting their work before leaving for a paid position).
Collaborating with students that will be working on independent studies, see
Brian Long
,
Abbi Honeycutt
and etc.
Opportunity
Serve both visions in a co-sponsored, 2009 Sugar Summer Co-op program.
A hybrid operation with RIT students and other interested parties would be possible.
Find financial sponsors.
Sugar Labs is not currently able to provide financial support except through
community donations
.
optionally, associate with
H-FOSS
.
self sponsor, when possible.
Use RIT Resources
Laboratory, office, and meeting spaces
Faculty for special projects
optionally: campus housing for room and board (One could get housing and a full meal plan at RIT for something like $2500-$3500 for the summer.
BUT
, application deadlines have passed; though, a group application exception may be possible.)
Use Rochester/Upstate New York Resources
Rochester, NY Special Interest Group
and
http://www.lugor.org/
.
Local schools, colleges, and universities
Other local institutions...
Local
&
Regional
resources for the social calendar.
Room and Board
optionally: RIT campus housing for room and board (Application deadlines have passed, but a group application exception may be possible.)
optionally: solicit Sponsor homes, like for exchange students, for those that might prefer or can't afford the other options.
a community support option for interested families
perhaps sponsors could invite appropriately-sized groups to summer cottages or vacation homes for reflective weekends or short, get-away periods.
Rochester local housing: $900-1,000/month for a 3 bedroom house $1400-1600/month for a four, etc.