Title: Sugar Network/Policy
URL: https://wiki.sugarlabs.org/go/Sugar_Network/Policy
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
NOTICE:
This page is a draft in active flux...
Please contribute to these contents and discuss issues on the
discussion page
.
This Policy is based on the
Activity Library
one
, assuming that
Sugar Network
will provide, in addition, the same content as Sugar
Activity Library
provides.
Contents
1
Requirements
2
Privacy
3
Special cases
4
Audit
Requirements
Content that is not permitted:
Inappropriate (violent, sexual, subversive, commercial, or, discriminatory) content,
This topic might be too ambiguous (and too hard to write in a few sentences). Since we don't have such a thorough policy, e.g., see this
policy
for the Sugar Labs wiki (although, for the Activity Library it is mostly obvious what kind of content should be hosted there), and since
Sugar Network
content needs to be monitored by editors, it would be better to avoid needless bureaucratic procedures and rely on people's saneness, and deal with objections on a case-by-case basis.
Inappropriate license, all licenses should conform Sugar Labs'
Licensing
policy.
If submitter doesn't have permissions to share the content.
Uploaded software should not contain
binaries
, instead, it should contain
sources
and rules how to transform sources into binaries.
The breach of the terms of use may mean the suspension of access to the network and / or the elimination of published content.
Rules for assignment top names, meaningful for human, to
Sugar Network
objects:
Names directly associated with a particular content line can be created only by the original creators.
Names inherited from the
Activity Library
have a priority.
Privacy
The system is designed to collect
personal usage statistics
. This kind of information might be critically useful in special cases like educational researches. There are the following assumes regarding privacy:
Sweets Distribution
, the official Sugar Network repository, does not enable personal statistics by default.
In order to start sharing personal statistics, user side configuration should explicitly enable it.
If you are using Sugar Network from downstream sources, please, consult downstream provider's private policy.
Special cases
These cases require special treatment involving all concerned parties:
Confusion between top level names.
The final decision will be made by the
Sugar Network
administration team.
Audit
Some checks, such as checking content license & conforming to this Policy, will be made automatically while uploading content to
Sugar Network
. In other cases, e.g., inappropriate content, we rely on
Activity Library Editors
and community feedback.