Title: Sugar Labs/Members
URL: https://wiki.sugarlabs.org/go/Sugar_Labs/Members#Membership_and_Elections_Committee
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Contents
1
Sugar Labs Membership
2
Applying for membership
3
Currency assurance policy
4
Members List
Sugar Labs Membership
The Sugar Labs
members list
consists of most of the contributors to the Sugar project. Members can run for election to the
Board of Directors
, vote in the elections for the Board of Directors, and suggest
referenda
.
As indicated in the
Sugar Labs Inc. bylaws
, any "significant and sustained" contributor to Sugar Labs is eligible for membership. Although it is difficult to specify a precise definition, a
contributor
generally must have contributed to a non-trivial improvement of the Sugar project or Sugar Labs activity. Contributions may be code, documentation, translations, maintenance of project-wide resources,
running a Sugar deployment
, or other non-trivial activities which benefit Sugar Labs. Membership eligibility is an individual determination: while contributions made in the course of employment will be considered, they will generally be ascribed to the individuals involved, rather than accruing to all employees of a "contributing" corporation.
Membership applications are overseen by the
Board of Directors
.
Applying for membership
All submissions MUST be sent via email to
members
at
sugarlabs.org
. Submissions sent to other email addresses or sent after the deadline will not be processed for the year's election. Someone on the Board of Directors will reply to your query within 2 business days. If you don't get a reply after a week, please contact committee members individually.
In your email, please include:
Your name,
Your
Matrix
handle, Wiki username, and/or GitHub username,
A description of your contribution to Sugar Labs, links are preferable.
Currency assurance policy
In order to ensure that the Sugar Labs Membership list is reflective of the current status of the project and its participants, once a year members will be asked to confirm that they still wish to be a Sugar Labs Member. If this request bounces, or if a request has not been replied to after it has been a) resent, b) checked for a more current email address, and c) six months have passed, the member will be sent a removal notice with an invitation to reapply.
The most recent currency review was in June 2017.
Members List
This is our
Sugar Labs/Members/List
.