Title: Sugar Summer Program/Massachusetts Field Trip
URL: https://wiki.sugarlabs.org/go/Sugar_Summer_Program/Massachusetts_Field_Trip
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Team Home
·
Join
·
Contacts
·
Resources
·
FAQ
·
Ideas
·
To Do
·
Meetings
Contents
1
Rough Schedule (getting polished)
1.1
Monday 10 August
1.2
Tuesday 11 August
1.3
Wednesday 12 August
1.4
Thursday 13 August
1.5
Friday 14 August
1.6
Saturday 15 August
1.7
Sunday 16 August
1.8
Monday 17 August
1.9
Tuesday 18 August
2
Possible Adjunct meetings
3
Participants
4
Background
5
Questions from those who can't attend
We have scheduled a field trip to Massachusetts to visit some technology sites and learn and work with people there.
This page is a collaborative planning site for this trip.
Rough Schedule (getting polished)
Adjustments or additional suggestions welcome.
Monday 10 August
Drive to Boston (Fred, Wesley, & Karlie from Rochester; David arriving separately)
~5 pm - Check in to Hostel,
http://bostonhostel.org/about.shtml
6:00 pm -
Bus to Harvard Square
(25 minutes)
7:00 pm reservations - Dinner out with Mel Chua at
John Harvard's Brew House
, learn the
T
, etc.
Pre-dinner - Introductions and Reintroductions
Dinner and post-Dinner topic - "What we've learned as OLPC/Sugar Labs students about working in the FLOSS environment as RIT students, co-ops, and associates"  (a small group self-evaluation session, with Mel Chua as sole guest beyond the 6 in our group)—
A serious topic for dinner, so we will punctuate the discussion with food and drink to ease our inhibitions and anxiety.
Why we enrolled
Questions we haven't asked
Difficulties we've encountered
Personal learnings, such as dealing with our own and other's lack of knowledge or skill.
How we would change the experience based on all the above
This should give us a good sense of our expectations, limitations, and potentials for the time ahead of us.
See
this Teaching Open Source wiki page
for a report of our Friday workshop that followed up on the ideas raised in this discussion.
Tuesday 11 August
10 am - Visit MIT Museum,
http://web.mit.edu/museum/
1 pm - lunch on or near campus
2 pm - Review field trip plans and schedule
2:30 pm - Conference room session, or classroom or administrator session with Caroline.
5 pm - Quit for dinner & evening plans (TBD)
Wednesday 12 August
9:30 am -  Museum of Science, Cahners Computerplace exhibit,
http://www.mos.org/exhibits_shows/current_exhibits&d=232
see Keith Simmons, RIT alumnus, and
Flagship Computer Clubhouse
.
12:30 am - Lunch at museum or nearby
2 pm - Conference room sessions, "Our projects - let's help each other.  Problems we've had and need help with" (guests welcome)
Community Interactions - David Farning
5 pm - Quit for dinner & evening plans (TBD)
Thursday 13 August
11 am - Return to
Flagship Computer Clubhouse
with kids (open 12 to 3 pm) for workshop with Caroline and Sugar on a Stick session
Math Quest
review with clubhouse children - Eric Mallon & Tyler Bragdon
5 pm - Quit for dinner & evening plans (TBD)
Evening:
New England Aquarium
(time permitting)
Friday 14 August
10 am - Red Hat visit in
Westford, MA
with Luke Macken and Mel Chua
Peek at working life at Red Hat in Westford
Technical discussion -
Author's tour of Live USB Creator
Lunch nearby
afternoon
workshop tasks,
2 pm - Witness Adam Holt <CanoeBerry> hosting the
OLPC Contributors Program
weekly
project review meeting
.
casual visits with OLPC/Media Lab/OLE/Others
See
this Teaching Open Source wiki page
for a report of our Friday workshop.
evening plans - open
Saturday 15 August
10:30 am -
Teotwawki Net
demonstration - William Schaub (remote) & Fred Grose
Free time
evening plans open
Sunday 16 August
Return home
Monday 17 August
Wesley, Fred, David, Karlie back in Rochester (Adam Holt welcome to join, if available)
Rest and visit Genesee River falls and pier, Abbotts, etc.
Tuesday 18 August
RIT visits with Professor Jacobs (Adam Holt welcome to join, if available)
Possible Adjunct meetings
While in Boston, perhaps we (David and I) could have a short visit with Ed McNierney and Stefan Unterhauser to discuss infrastructure plans or system administration projects for OLPC/Sugar Labs, for example,
http://vig.laptop.org/wiki/index.php/Recipe:migratewiki
and
http://lists.laptop.org/pipermail/olpc-sysadmin/2009-July/000324.html
.
Stefan joined us for dinner on Tuesday evening and again for our trip to Red Hat on Friday.
Henry Hardy joined us at the Computer Clubhouse on Wednesday
Hoping others can offer some suggestions and support.
Participants
Frederick Grose, Rochester, 10 - 18 August, room for 3 others at my house in Rochester, room for 3 others in my car.
David Farning, Wisconsin, , room with Fred in Rochester
Wesley Dillingham, Rochester, ride with Fred, if needed has a car available to bring as well.
Tyler Bragdon, Boston,
Karlie Robinson, Rochester, One room to share at her house near RIT (must not mind kids and dogs), car we can use for travel to Boston
Eric Mallon, Statham, NH,
Background
We were planning to take a field trip to Boston, MA this summer with our Sugar Summer Co-ops, to visit some of the technology destinations and preferably overlap with some Sugar Labs or OLPC project or event. Perhaps we could arrange to provide ourselves as work resources for several days to one of Caroline's projects or something else yet to come to mind. We called this idea a 'work & tour' party or crew.
The remote co-ops have not had the opportunity for an "around the summer campfire" experience, and this would be a goal for the trip for all the rest of us too.  Dave Farning will join us to extend his Sugar Labs and OLPC event experience (and I think he will have some good stories and thinking to share).
There may be some awkward issues though:
Project teams may be uncertain of the benefits of "hosting" a short-term 'work & tour' party or crew in a project that is still forming a stable base.  It may not be a good idea and turn out to be a distraction because it's hard to define expectations.  Not knowing what practical service or resource we could provide in a few days of service, makes it hard to generate interest.  We would look at it like campground trail maintenance or kitchen patrol--an indirect learning and load-sharing opportunity.
Questions from those who can't attend
Will you be encouraging people to record/photo/video what they see?
Wes will bring his digital camera and help with documentation.
Will there be field survey tools used,
i.e.
, a prepared questionnaire for those running labs, etc.?
We will bring this up with Keith Simmons at the
Flagship Computer Clubhouse
.
Does everyone have business cards?
Is the success of the trip measured by fun or productivity? If productivity, how will that be measured?
By learning, which we categorize as both fun and productive.  Watch for growth in knowledge, character, and resources for the community.
How many instances will you be able to observe of young/naive users of Sugar / OLPC?
Will anyone be blogging/vlogging the trip? If so, will they post their links here?
There will be some kilogging here on the wiki.
Thanks for your contributions.