Title: Sugar on a Stick/Coconut
URL: https://wiki.sugarlabs.org/go/Sugar_on_a_Stick/Coconut
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Sugar on a Stick - Coconut
a Sugar environment you can carry in your pocket
Sugar on a Stick v5
Coconut
has been superseded by the
Pineapple
release as of
08 November 2011
. See
Sugar on a Stick/Downloads
for the most current version.
Coconut
is the 5th version of
Sugar on a Stick
released
09 October 2011
.
archive .iso files
:
i686
,
x86_64
hashes to verify downloads
See these
installation instructions
.
Contents
1
Sugar on a Stick - Coconut
2
Release announcement
2.1
What's new in Coconut
2.2
Contributing to Sugar on a Stick
3
Virtual machines
4
Release history
4.1
Introduction
4.2
Beta Release
4.3
Re-approved as a Fedora Spin
4.4
Feature process
4.5
QA
4.6
Documentation
4.7
Major accomplishments this release cycle
5
Press coverage
Release announcement
See this
Announcement
What's new in Coconut
Sugar version 0.92.
The most recent release of the Sugar Learning Platform features support for ad hoc Wi-Fi networks, which expands the "under a tree"-scenario to standard Wi-Fi enabled devices. There are also new capabilities in the learner's interface, including a spiral home view, enhanced color selector, and Journal sorting. A lot of under the hood improvements for stability have been included, as usual.
More information about the 0.92 release of Sugar is available at
0.92
.
Customize your own remix of Sugar on a Stick.
Coconut has a slightly larger Activity selection than its predecessor Mango Lassi and has continued the trend of providing a few, better-tested Activities. We've realized that we'll never be able to create an Activity selection suitable for all deployments—instead, we've chosen to include and support a core set of basic, teacher-tested Activities in the default image, and invite deployments to use this as a base on which to build a customized Activity selection for their classrooms. See:
Build Your Own Remix with Fedora
customization guide
Sugar on a Stick/Sugar Clone
A quick, but less pristine, method of build customization
ASLO Activity Collection
DVD full of ASLO xo activities to Drag Drop into Soas Journal from DVD for Individual customizations.
]
Sugar on a Stick is a Fedora Spin.
Since SoaS v3 Mirabelle, Sugar on a Stick has been recognized by the
Fedora Project
as an official
Spin
. This ties us more closely to Fedora's release cycle and gives us resources from their engineering and marketing teams, which extends the reach of Sugar on a Stick and makes the project itself more sustainable. In exchange, users of Fedora have access to an easily deployable implementation of the Sugar Platform; it's a great example of a mutually beneficial upstream–downstream relationship.
Contributing to Sugar on a Stick
With v5 of Sugar on a Stick, the team recognizes the need to continue to improve its release processes and engineering sustainability. New contributors are urged to get involved and help us move towards our long-term vision of bringing stability and deployability to Sugar's personalized learning environment.
If you'd like to contribute to the next version, due for release in November of 2011, join our
mailing list
and visit
Sugar on a Stick
. All types of contributions are welcome, from the technical to the pedagogical, and we're happy to teach what we know and learn what you have to share.
Thank you to all the people involved for their awesome work!
Virtual machines
Release history
Introduction
This section is a recap of the events during the v5 Coconut release cycle of Sugar on a Stick.
SoaS v5 is based on Fedora 15, and has been delayed. From the Fedora wiki,
"The move to NetworkManager 0.9 came after the feature freeze, and the Sugar desktop wasn't accounted for in the scramble to get alternate desktop environments working with it."
[1]
Beta Release
Download
(Coconut Beta)
09/12/2011
Re-approved as a Fedora Spin
"[Spins are alternate versions of Fedora, tailored for various types of users via hand-picked application sets and other customizations." --from
http://spins.fedoraproject.org/about
See the release notes for v3 and v4 for history on the transition to a Fedora Spin.
Feature process
Features/Soas_V5/
QA
Much thanks to Peter Robinson who did a majority of the work to program, prepare and coordinate the work with many other sugar developers for this release.
Thomas Gilliard did field-testing (building real SoaS sticks from .iso files and testing on those) - it's the closest thing to systematic testing we've had yet, though we still have a ways to go.
Thank you also to James Cameron in Australia for his testing help!
Much help was also provided by the team at #fedora-qa; freenode IRC
Documentation
A new release of documentation should come out with each new release of SoaS (although resources have prevented this).
The Fedora-site documentation may not be an improvement over our Sugar Labs, ad hoc wiki documentation methods, as the tools needed to participate are more complicated, and the Spin page documentation is not open to editing.  The Fedora Sugar on a Stick pages have not been edited since Mirabelle was released in May 2010.  The attempt to better support a small number of known, working, "how to set up SoaS", instructions has not yet been fulfilled.
Major accomplishments this release cycle
Expanded discussion with upstream Fedora especially Fedora QA team and the new AutoQA processes. Initial integration in the Fedora Desktop QA testing process with initial guidelines and test process created. This will be expanded in Fedora 15 for the SoaS v5 release.
Press coverage
Feel free to add links to press coverage you find about Coconut to this section.