Title: Sugar on a Stick/lang-es
URL: https://wiki.sugarlabs.org/go/Sugar_on_a_Stick/lang-es
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
english
|
español
HowTo
[ID# 36929]
Project Home
·
Join
·
Contacts
·
Resources
·
FAQ
·
Roadmap
·
To Do
·
Meetings
Contents
1
Introduccion
2
Metas del proyecto
3
Getting Sugar on a Stick (beta)
3.1
Create Your Stick
3.2
Boot
3.3
Use
4
Help the project
4.1
For Developers: Downloading alternative images
4.2
Testing
4.3
Join the development effort
4.4
Roadmap
5
See Also
5.1
/Subpages
Introduccion
Sugar Labs ofrece acceso ubicuo  a Sugar en una memoria USB portátil (A.K.A. Pen drive). El projecto Sugar on a Stick  (
aún en fase Beta
)  da acceso a los niños a "su" Sugar en cualquier  computador en su entorno solo con una  memoria USB. Aprovechando el  LiveUSB de FEDORA, es posible almacenar todo lo que necesitas para ejecutar Sugar en una memoria USB portátil (espacio mínimo 1GB). Este pequeño dispositivo USB puede iniciar la plataforma de aprendizaje Sugar en diferentes computadoras en casa, en la escuela, at school, o en un programa  despues de la escuela, llevando el Sugar a todos estos lugares. De hecho, Sugar on a Stick trabajará incluso en computadoras que no tengan disco duro. Con Sugar on a Stick, la experiencia de aprendizaje es la misma en cualquier computadora: en la escuela, el hogar, la biblioteca, o un centro despues de la escuela.
Para saber que versión de Sugar estas usando tu puedes ver la sección "acerca de mi computador" en el panel de control.
¿Qué es exactamente “on the Stick”?: La versión Fedora contiene una copia comprimida de Fedora 11 que arrancará, correrá en memoria y mantendrá los cambios en una unidad flash USB con una partición estándar FAT16 y FAT32.  Los archivos coexisten con otros archivos que el usuario puede tener o poner en el disco. Diferentes tipos de configuraciones están siendo diseñadas para ofrecer las opciones de correr virtualizaciones o emulaciones y usar maquinas virtuales en computadoras existentes guardando “Sugar Home folder (trabajo del usuario) on the Stick” para el uso en otra estación de trabajo.
Metas del proyecto
Sugar on a Stick como modelo de aprendizaje 1 a 1 en escuelas de nivel básico.
Sugar on a Stick para empoderar a estudiantes de educación media y superior que ayuden a realizar pruebas
Sugar on a Stick en conferencias que permitan a la gente probar Sugar y colaborar con otros participantes en dichas conferencias
Getting Sugar on a Stick (beta)
Note:
The first SoaS beta is now available! Please check the
release notes
and download it, unless you're a Windows user (in which case you'll be able to download it directly when creating your stick), from here:
http://download.sugarlabs.org/soas/releases/soas-beta.iso
We had a SoaS pre-release on April 10th, 2009 at
FOSSVT
, where we premiered and distributed SoaS. We are testing the beta image again this week (the week of April 13) and are ready for the final release now.
Please download, test (see
Smoke test
), and give feedback (on sugar-devel@lists.sugarlabs.org and
Sugar on a Stick/Getting Involved
) – please follow the instructions below to download a copy!
Requirement:
You'll need a USB key, with a size of at least 1 GB!
Create Your Stick
Please select your operating system below to get further instructions.
You can also run SoaS in a virtual machine. Sugar Labs volunteers are experimenting with
VirtualBox
,
VMware
, and
QEMU
. Virtual machines emulate computer hardware resources in software and allow your to install and run disc images from different operating systems on a single computer.
Boot
If you have an older machine or you just want things to immediately work without fussing with the BIOS, you can burn a "Boot Helper" CD using the .iso below. This will start the boot from the CD, then read files from the USB stick:
http://people.sugarlabs.org/sdz/soas-boot.iso
On most modern computers its possible to set the target computer's BIOS to boot from USB so you don't need a CD at all!  Unfortunately this is slightly different on each computer.  Explore the setup screen for your system (press Esc or F1 while the computer is booting).  If you can't figure it out, search Google for information on your computer model's BIOS.
Use
Once your stick boots, you'll find yourself in your own Sugar environment, ready to play and learn.
For a guide on how to use Sugar, see the
FLOSSmanuals Sugar Users Guide
.
olpc:Keyboard_shortcuts
lists some of the Sugar keyboard shortcuts on a PC keyboard.
Let us know how it goes! Send e-mail to iaep@lists.sugarlabs.org. This is our "It's an Education Project" mailing list.
Help the project
Please keep notes on which version of Sugar on a Stick you have downloaded when reporting issues.
When booting SoaS, you'll see for a short time a screen showing a kind of solar system.
Press the "Escape" button here and you'll get to the boot menu.
There, you should find the images name in the following structure:
Soas{version number}-{date of creation}
Alternatively, you can also refer to the name of the .iso file, if you still have it around.
To find out which version of Sugar you are using you can look it up in the 'About my Computer' Section in the Control Panel.
Report bugs to
http://dev.sugarlabs.org/
. Use the "SoaS" component when entering new bugs.
For Developers: Downloading alternative images
We've now various solutions available, which are listed below. Some of those might still be unstable and in testing, which means that
they might not work yet.
The SoaS beta release is currently based on
Soas2-200904141108.iso
. It's the most stable solution we've available right now and is recommended for usage.
On the other hand, you can also grab the a snapshot, which includes the latest bits, but might contain some issues. We really need your help on testing those to move forward!
The virtual appliance is
not ready
for general use and under heavy development. Any help with testing it is appreciated, though.
available solution
current state
download location
SoaS
Beta
beta quality
http://download.sugarlabs.org/soas/releases/soas-beta.iso
SoaS
Snapshot
varying quality
http://download.sugarlabs.org/soas/snapshots/2/Soas2-200906221314.iso
SoaS
Virtual Appliance
alpha quality
http://download.sugarlabs.org/soas/appliances/soas2-20090603.zip
Previous snapshots are provided in the subsequent directories on
http://download.sugarlabs.org/soas/
.
Testing
For testing SoaS, you might want to follow the Sugar
Smoke Test
procedures.
See the
Getting Involved
page for details.
Join the development effort
We are experimenting with the
Sugar Labs Moodle system
to help in coordinating deployment work on this project.
Development discussions take place on the Sugar-Devel email list,
http://lists.sugarlabs.org/listinfo/sugar-devel
.
Real-time development chat is at
irc://irc.freenode.net#sugar
and on webchat at
#sugar
Gitorious SoaS home
Roadmap
Review and contribute to plans and schedules on the
Project roadmap page
.
See Also
OLPC:Rawhide-XO
for the closely related development of Sugar for the XO-1 laptop on Fedora 11.
Deployment Team/School_Key
Information on various Sugar on a Stick deployments.
Protocol for
April 17 Olin Play Session
/Subpages