Title: Sugar Labs/Legal/Logo and trademark policy
URL: https://wiki.sugarlabs.org/go/Sugar_Labs/Legal/Logo_and_trademark_policy
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
See
Trademark
for policy registered 14 May 2010.
NOTE:
This page was used for drafting the above policy.
December 15, 2009
Contents
1
Purpose
2
Proper Usage of "Sugar Labs" trademark
3
Proper Usage of "Sugar" trademark
4
Proper Usage of "Sugar Labs Partner" Logo
5
Proper Usage of "Sugar Ready" Logo
6
General Usage of Logos
7
Proper Notice and Attribution
Purpose
The Sugar Labs has created a number of trademarks and logos to identify the Sugar Labs community and individual Sugar Labs projects. In addition to the ‘Sugar Labs’ trademark, Sugar Labs has introduced three trademarks and logos:
Sugar,
Sugar Ready.
Sugar Labs Partner,
This document outlines the policy and guidelines of Sugar Labs in regards to these trademarks and logos.
Our goals in establishing these guidelines are pretty simple:
The Sugar Labs trademarks are a symbol of the quality and community support that people have come to associate with Sugar Labs. To ensure that the Sugar Labs trademarks continue to serve these functions, we need to keep some element of control over their use. Along these lines, we want to ensure that the use of our marks not likely to lead to confusion with other marks. By this we mean that people should be able to tell when something is from Sugar Labs. Also, use of our marks should not be in a disparaging manner because we prefer that our marks not be used to be rude about the Sugar technology, the Sugar Labs, or its Members.
We want to encourage our logos to be used in approved ways. So, for example, we want to make it as simple as legally possible for our Partners to use the ‘Sugar Labs Partner’ mark. If you want to use a Sugar Labs logo in a way not explicitly explained in these Guidelines, then ask us by sending an email to license@sugarlabs.org.
Proper Usage of "Sugar Labs" trademark
1. You may not incorporate the ‘Sugar Labs’ trademark into the name of your company or software product name.
2. It is acceptable to include the ‘Sugar Labs’ trademark in the name of a publication, certification program, domain name or book. However you must ensure that a) the appropriate ® symbol is associated with the ‘Sugar Labs’ reference and appropriate attribution as discussed below, b) ‘Sugar Labs’ is not concatenated with another word, e.g. SugarLabsBoard, and c) the usage does not imply or make the user believe that the publication, domain name or book is supported or authorized by Sugar Labs.
3. ‘Sugar Labs’ should always be two separate capitalized words, except when used as part of the Sugar Labs logos.
Please see
Sugar_Labs/Governance/Trademark
for more details regarding the Sugar Labs trademark policy.
Proper Usage of "Sugar" trademark
1. You may not incorporate the ‘Sugar’ trademark into the name of your company or software product name. If you have a software product that works with Sugar, it is suggested you use terms such as ‘<product name> for Sugar’ or ‘<product name>, Sugar Edition’
2. It is acceptable to include the ‘Sugar’ trademark in the name of a publication, certification program, domain name or book. However you must ensure that a) the appropriate ® symbol is associated with the ‘Sugar’ reference and appropriate attribution as discussed below, b) ‘Sugar’ is not concatenated with another word, e.g. SugarBoard, and c) the usage does not imply or make the user believe that the publication, domain name or book is supported or authorized by Sugar Labs.
3. ‘Sugar’ should always be capitalized, except when used as part of the Sugar logos.
Proper Usage of "Sugar Labs Partner" Logo
The ‘Sugar Labs Partner’ logo is to identify those organizations and individuals that are official partners of Sugar Labs. Only official partners of Sugar Labs are authorized to use this logo.
Proper Usage of "Sugar Ready" Logo
The ‘Built on Sugar’ trademark is used to identify a product that includes the core Sugar Platform. This type of product is able to run standalone with no prerequisites of other Sugar components.
General Usage of Logos
1. Derivative works of the ‘Sugar Labs’, ‘Sugar’, 'Sugar Ready', and 'Sugar Labs Partner' logos are not allowed.
2. The ‘Sugar Labs’ logos and production specification are available from wiki.sugarlabs.org. Replication of these logos must follow these specifications.
Proper Notice and Attribution
The appropriate registered trademark symbol (i.e. ®) should appear at least with the first use of the Sugar Labs, and Sugar trademarks and all occurrence of Sugar Labs logo.
When you use an Sugar Labs trademark or logo you should include a statement attributing the trademark to Sugar Labs. For example, "‘Sugar’, and ‘Sugar Ready’  are trademarks of Sugar Labs."