Title: Sugar Labs/Governance/lang-es
URL: https://wiki.sugarlabs.org/go/Sugar_Labs/Governance/lang-es
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Contents
1
DRAFT Reglas de Governance
1.1
Software Freedom Conservancy
1.2
Oversight Board
1.2.1
Paneles de desicion
1.3
Advisory Board
1.4
Comites
1.5
Membresia Sugar Labs
1.6
Referendos Sugar Labs
DRAFT Reglas de Governance
Please comment in-line or on the
discussion page
.
Uno de los desafíos que enfrentan los proyectos de  free y open-source es el impacto de la governance en los miembros de sus comunidades: mientras que las licencias FOSS aseguran el acceso al codigo, esto no garantiza un proyecto exito. Un modelo de governance puede ayudar a asegurar que el proyecto sea manejado de una manera profesional, diciplinada y equitativa. Una buena  governance deja a la comunidad involucrarse en el discurso
y provee un mecanismo transparente de arbitramento  en las (esperamos) raras circunstancias sen las cuales esto sea necesario.
Algunos atributos que son importantes para una buena governance incluyen: meritocracia, transparencia de, acceso abierto a cualquiera que haya demostrado las habilidades para contribuir y medios para asegurar balance en el control de el discurso o la toma de decisiones.
Software Freedom Conservancy
Sugar Labs has applied for membership within the
Software Freedom Conservancy
(SFC). This would place the project under the umbrella of a 501.3(c) foundation. "The Conservancy provides member projects with free financial and administrative services, but does not involve itself with technological and artistic decisions. By joining the Conservancy, member FOSS projects can obtain the benefits of a formal legal structure while keeping themselves focused on software development." Governance must be maintained by Sugar Labs on its own behalf to provide for the long term success and stability of Sugar. (The Conservancy Board has provisionally approved Sugar Lab's application to join the Conservancy.)
The following
proposed
governance model is largely derived from the model used by the Gnome Foundation (Please see
gnome.org/about
).
Oversight Board
To avoid confusion, Sugar Labs will not have “directors”, since that attribution within the SFC is already taken to mean the board members of the Conservancy itself. Therefore, the central administrative body of Sugar Labs is termed the
Oversight Board
.
Sugar Labs shall be governed by an Oversight Board, consisting of seven (7) members, elected annually by the Sugar community—the Sugar Membership. The Oversight Board shall meet at least once per quarter to discuss various topics pertaining to the regular activities of the Sugar Labs Project and Sugar. (It is expected that more frequent meeting will be required in the early stages of the program.) The minutes to these meetings shall be posted publicly on the Sugar Labs wiki (
Oversight Board/Minutes
).
The members of the Oversight Board may be removed from the position at any time by a majority vote of the Community Members. Upon the resignation or removal of a member of the  Oversight Board, the Community Members shall elect a replacement Community Member to serve on the Oversight Board.
The Oversight Board will elect a single individual to communicate with the Conservancy (the "Representative") and shall notify the Conservancy promptly following the election of a new Representative. The Representative will have the authority to instruct the Conservancy on the Project's behalf on all matters.
Paneles de desicion
The Oversight Board's role is to manage the day-to-day affairs of Sugar Labs and to help the community to build consensus. On the rare occasion of a contentious issue on which no general consensus can be reached, the Oversight Board is responsible for convening a Decision Panel. The Oversight Board will be responsible for determining when a Decision Panel is required and for selecting members for the Decision Panel. Members of the Oversight Board are not permitted to serve on a Decision Panel. A Decision Panel will solicit community input, discuss (in private if they deem it necessary), reach a conclusion internally, and produce a report documenting their conclusion. (Anyone may submit advice to a Decision Panel.) The Oversight Board will review and ratify Decision Panel reports.
Advisory Board
The
Advisory Board
is made up of organizations and companies that support Sugar Labs. The Advisory Board has no decision-making authority but provides a vehicle for its members to communicate with the Oversight Board and help the Directors guide the overall direction of Sugar and the Sugar Labs Project. The Advisory Board will appoint (up to) three (3) members who will be non-voting attendees of Oversight Board meetings. The Advisory Board will meet up to twice per year.
The Advisory Board consists of representatives from the following Sugar Labs Foundation member corporations and projects.
Advisory board member companies pay an annual fee which helps finance the operations of the Sugar Labs Project.
Comites
The Oversight Board is responsible for establishing
committees
as necessary.
Each committee will include one member from the Oversight Board (non-voting), who will server as a recording secretary, and three (3) to five (5) additional members (initially appointed by the Oversight Board and subsequently elected) from the community.
Special Interest Groups (SIGs) may be established by any member. They can be formed around any topic and, if they prove to be useful, can be designated as official committees.
Advisory committees will provide input in advance of Oversight Board meetings and may be asked on occasion to send a representative to a meeting of the Oversight Board.
Membresia Sugar Labs
The Sugar Labs
membership
consists of all the contributors to the Sugar project. Members can run for election to the Oversight Board, vote in the elections for the Oversight Board, and suggest
referenda
.
Any "significant and sustained" contributor to Sugar Labs is eligible for membership. Although it is difficult to specify a precise definition, a
contributor
generally must have contributed to a non-trivial improvement of the Sugar project or Sugar Labs activity. Contributions may be code, documentation, translations, maintenance of project-wide resources,
running a Sugar deployment
, or other non-trivial activities which benefit Sugar Labs. Membership eligibility is an individual determination: while contributions made in the course of employment will be considered, they will generally be ascribed to the individuals involved, rather than accruing to all employees of a "contributing" corporation. The Membership and Elections Committee will oversee membership applications (Please apply by sending email to members at sugarlabs.org).
The Membership and Elections Committee will review the membership list for currency once per year.
Referendos Sugar Labs
At times an issue may arise that merits gathering consensus from the community. Any member of the Sugar Labs Foundation can suggest a referendum. To be accepted, a request for a referendum must be endorsed by 10% of all of the membership. The overall referendum process is overseen by the Membership and Elections Committee, which can be reached at elections@sugarlabs.org.
A 75% vote of all of the members can override an Oversight Board decision.