Title: Summer of Code/2014/port-to-python3
URL: https://wiki.sugarlabs.org/go/Summer_of_Code/2014/port-to-python3
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Contents
1
About Me
1.1
What is your name?
1.2
What is your email address?
1.3
What is your Sugar Labs wiki username?
1.4
What is your IRC nickname?
1.5
What is your primary language?
1.6
Where are you located, and what hours do you tend to work?
1.7
Have you participated in an open-source project before?
2
About My Project
2.1
Project Description
2.2
Timeline
2.3
My Background
2.4
Impact on the Sugar Labs community
2.5
What will you do if you get stuck on your project and your mentor isn't around?
2.6
How do you propose you will be keeping the community informed of your progress and any problems or questions you might have over the course of the project?
3
Miscellaneous
3.1
Screenshot of my Sugar development environment
3.2
Send us a link to a pull request or merge request you have made on a Sugar or Sugar activity bug.
3.3
What is your t-shirt size?
3.4
Describe a great learning experience you had as a child.
3.5
Additional information
About Me
What is your name?
Deshraj
What is your email address?
deshrajdry@gmail.com
What is your Sugar Labs wiki username?
Deshrajdry
What is your IRC nickname?
deshrajdry on freenode
What is your primary language?
(We have mentors who speak multiple languages and can match you with one of them if you'd prefer.)
English and Hindi
Where are you located, and what hours do you tend to work?
(We also try to match mentors by general time zone if possible.)
I am located in Noida, India 5:30+GMT. I usually tend to work approximately from 10:00 am to mid night.
Have you participated in an open-source project before?
If so, please send us URLs to your profile pages for those projects, or some other demonstration of the work that you have done in open-source. If not, why do you want to work on an open-source project this summer?
Until now, i haven't done any Open Source Project but I am deeply interested in making contribution to a open source project since this concept enables every developer to learn new things and to contribute to any software to enhance its quality and also his own developing skills.Its an easy way to spread knowledge across the world.
About My Project
Project Description
What is the name of your project? Describe your project in 10-20 sentences. What are you making? Who are you making it for, and why do they need it? What technologies (programming languages, etc.) will you be using?
Port To Python3
is a project that ports the current Sugar to Python 3.
Firstly, discussing with the Mentors for the strategy for writing Python 2/3 compatible source or a pure port. Then I will work on improving the Test Suite since I need to build a robust Test Suite. Then I would be porting the Sugar Core to Python3 using 2to3, modernize package. Since there is requirement of the latest technologies for every software so I would work as fast as i can so as to port it to Python3. After that, if any bug remains then I will fix them with the help of the mentors. Also I will be informing about my project from time to time to the organisation. Then, I will be porting one of the Sugar Activity to the Python3.
And at last , the documentation for the porting guide for the Sugar Activities will be prepared.
Overall steps involved in my project,
Discussion with the Mentors for pure port or Python 2/3 compatible source code
Improving the test suite
Porting to Python3
Fixing of bugs if any remains
Porting One Sugar Activity to Python3
Preparing documentation for the Porting Guide of Sugar Activities.
The technologies that I would be using are Python,2to3 etc.
Timeline
Week
Tasks and resources to be used
Before 19 May
Reading Documentaion, Learn different port stratigies
20th May - 27th May (Week 1)
Discussion with the mentors for writing Python2/3 or port to Python3
28th May - 3rd June(Week 2)
Improving the Test Suite
4th June - 18th June(Week 3,4)
Using migration,2to3,modernisation strategies to port to Python3
19th June - 23th June(Week 5)
Handling Exceptions and debugging bugs if any
24th June - 27th June(Week 5)
MID TERM EVALUTIONS
28th June -4th July(Week 6)
Porting one Sugar Activity to Python3 for seeing changes
5th July - 12th July(Week 7)
Starting Documentation for Porting Guide of Sugar Activities
13th July - 30th July(Week 8,9)
Creating the Documentation for Porting Guide and Finalizing it
31st July - 11th August(End)
Continue work on the previous week. Send updates and request feedback till the Final Evaluations
My Background
Convince us, in 5-15 sentences, that you will be able to successfully complete your project in the timeline you have described. This is usually where people describe their past experiences, credentials, prior projects, schoolwork, and that sort of thing, but be creative. Link to prior work or other resources as relevant.
I’m studying Computer Science, 2nd year at JSS Academy Of Technical Education, Noida. I have a decent amount of experience in web development in Python and Web Frameworks like Django.
I am a part of Nibble Computer Society(College Programming Club), in JSS Noida, which is a student body responsible for developing and managing all web related tasks in our college, including the institute website and registration & placement portals. One of the projects I have worked is developing Windows Phone based Web Browser named "SkyNet Browser" in three nights.Currently it is having 386 downloads in just 4 days after launching it on WindowsPhone Store. It's available on the
Windows Phone Store
. I am very much successful in completing any project before the given deadline.
I have organised the Crack The Shell Event, JSS's Annual Technical Festival Event based on Linux Scripting.
Currently I am working on a Project based on Computer Vision through Python.
Impact on the Sugar Labs community
If your project is successfully completed, what will its impact be on the Sugar Labs community? Give 3 answers, each 1-3 paragraphs in length. The first one should be yours. The other two should be answers from members of the Sugar Labs community, at least one of whom should be a Sugar Labs GSoC mentor. Provide email contact information for non-GSoC mentors.
Python3 will make the development of the Sugar Core much faster than the current rate due to its robustness.
Python 3 has much better support for i18n and unicode -- critical to the global nature of our project. --Walter
What will you do if you get stuck on your project and your mentor isn't around?
If I get stuck somewhere then I would do straight way come to the Sugar IRC and the mailing lists . And if the problem is not getting solved there then i will seek some external links and resources and will do research by my own.
How do you propose you will be keeping the community informed of your progress and any problems or questions you might have over the course of the project?
By posting weekly progress along with problems that i would be having.
Miscellaneous
Screenshot of my Sugar development environment
Send us a link to a pull request or merge request you have made on a Sugar or Sugar activity bug.
Till now i haven't made any pull request but i have reported two bugs in the Sugar Labs Bugs Page.
What is your t-shirt size?
Large (L)
Describe a great learning experience you had as a child.
In class 11th, one day during exams I was so much engrossed in the studies that i studied for 20 hours that day .
That day I had the best learning experience.
Additional information
Is there anything else we should have asked you or anything else that we should know that might make us like you or your project more?
My dedication towards the Projects involving Computer Science is great.
I can work continuously at any project without any break. I love to learn and implement.