Title: Summer of Code/Tayba Wasim
URL: https://wiki.sugarlabs.org/go/Summer_of_Code/Tayba_Wasim
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
PROPOSAL FOR SUGAR LABS
I have followed Outreachy’s format along with some additional questions
Name
Tayba Wasim
Do I meet the eligibility criteria as stated for GSOC programme?
Yes
Preferred Pronoun
She
Email Address
tabs16w@gmail.com
IRC nick
Tabs16
Internet Presence
LinkedIn
https://www.linkedin.com/in/tayba-wasim
Github
https://github.com/Tabs16
Webpage
https://tabs16.github.io/
Blog
https://tabs16blog.wordpress.com/
Location
Jaipur, Rajasthan , India (+5.30 GMT)
Education
I am a Sophomore Undergraduate Student, pursuing Bachelor of Technology with
Computer Science and Engineering as major in The LNM Institute of Information
Technology,Jaipur,India.
First language
English
How did you hear about this programme?
I got to know about this programme from the open source community of our college.
My experience with the organization's product as a user and as a contributor
Sugar Labs, a volunteer-driven, non-profit organization has its origins in the One Laptop
Per Child project .The mission of Sugar Labs is to support the Sugar community of
users and developers and establish regional, autonomous “Sugar Labs” around the
world to help learners “learn how to learn” by tailoring Sugar to local languages and
curricula.
The mission of Sugar Labs is quite noble and I wanted to be a part of this mission, so I
started contributing to Music Blocks.
I have always been a lover of Music but never got the opportunity to learn the concepts
and then apply them at the same time but Music Blocks helped me achieve this. Music
Blocks is a project under Sugar Labs and it is a collection of manipulative tools for
exploring fundamental musical concepts in an integrative and fun way.Since the day I
got introduced to Music Blocks, I have been a regular user. I have also shared my
experience on
https://musicblocks.net/2017/03/03/my-musical-inception-in-open-source/
.
I have already made a number of contributions and would love to continue contributing
to Music Blocks and to Sugar Labs organisation in general since it gives me utmost
pleasure when my work gets beneficial to millions of users.I have also contributed to
Turtle Blocks and have been a user of TamTam activity in sugar.
Link to my contributions
https://github.com/walterbender/musicblocks/commits?author=Tabs16
Please describe your experience with any other FOSS projects as a user and as a
contributor:
I am a regular user of open-source SVG editor, Inkscape. I am also a regular user of
Firefox and Firefox nightly. Moreover, I have contributed to Mozilla organisation in their
To help drive nightly reboot for Mozilla project which involved bug triaging and checking
their validity.
Link to my Bugzilla handle can be found by email :​tabs16w@gmail.com
Bugzilla Profile Page :
https://bugzilla.mozilla.org/user_profile
Please describe any relevant projects that you have worked on previously and
what knowledge you gained from working on them (include links):
I have worked on projects like MedQA which involves knowledge of front end skills i.e.
HTML,CSS and Javascript and python + flask framework. Moreover, I did a project of
Computer Society of India(CSI) which was based on Data Visualisation in Javascript
which helped me improvise my analytical skills as well.More projects are on my github
handle including a social networking site in Java which is currently under progress.
What project(s) are you interested in (these can be in the same or different
organizations)?
I am most interested in the project Timbre Widget for Music Blocks under Sugar Labs
organisation.
Mentors
Walter Bender and Devin Ulibarri
Please describe the details and the timeline of the work you plan to accomplish
on the project you are most interested in (discuss these first with the mentor of
the project):
Note ​:​ Please go through the link provided below as in this link I have illustrated
all the sketches and the widget implementation up to date.
Project idea implementation link​ : The following link ​discusses how the timbre widget
can be implemented for Music blocks which will be a valuable addition to the software
benefiting millions of users at the same time: LINK
https://drive.google.com/open?id=0ByFvuiyxOlEtcFBSbjhaUzd3Mnc
Work Timeline​ :
Before May 30​
Get up to speed to begin working on the project
May 30 - June 26​
Make the UI of the timbre widget block to be established perfectly along with looking into the details and also implementation to modify the UI in order to cater to the needs of the users. I will also modify some existing blocks such as set-synth block to increase its functionality during this period.
June 27 - July 24​
Finish the UI part of the block completely and make the functions of
the block work with the power of Tone.js
July 25 - August 30​
In this period, I will work on including graphs or pictorial representations for the block to make it conceptually rich for the users. As of now, I intend to include graphs for representing how the options of the timbre block will modify the sound.
I also intend to make the widget more advanced in this period, for example,inclusion of
multiple timbre widgets working at the same time.
Will you have any other time commitments, such as school work, exams,
research, another job, planned vacation, etc., between March 30, 2017 and August
30, 2017? Please provide exact dates for these commitments and the number of
hours a week these commitments take.
I have my fourth semester exams from April 27-May 6, 2017. After May 6,2017 , I have
my summer vacations till July 31,2017. I have got no other work commitments in this
time period.
If a student, please list the courses you will be taking between March 30, 2017 and
August 30, 2017, how many credits you will be taking, and how many credits a
full-time student normally takes at your school. Please provide a link or upload
your program's suggested curriculum by semester, which includes the suggested
number of credits in each semester. Please provide a link or upload your school's
academic calendar.
Academic calendar :
http://lnmiit.ac.in/uploaded_files/Academic_Calendar_2017.pdf
Suggested curriculum :
http://www.lnmiit.ac.in/uploaded_files/LNMIIT%20UG%20Curriculua.pdf
Course Credits (21)
Theory of Computation 3
Operating Systems 3
Operating Systems Lab 2
Program Elective 1 3
Program Elective 2 3
Software Engineering 3
Open Elective Cluster 1 3
HSS Cluster 1 3
Total Credits 17/20/23
Me and Community
If your project is successfully completed, what will its impact be on the Sugar
Labs community?
My answer
If the project is successfully completed, it will be a great addition to Music
Blocks project.Moreover, the addition of Timbre Widget to Music Blocks will benefit
Sugar Labs Community and millions of users who use Music Blocks to learn music in a
fun and interactive way. The Timbre WIdget will allow the users to modify the timbre of
the sound and help the users to learn the concepts of Music in an interactive way.
Walter Bender’s answer
The goal of Music Blocks (and Sugar in general) to provide a
rich set of tools, which the student can deconstruct and remake. The current Music
Blocks implementation stops short of letting the student deconstruct the sounds used in
their programs. The Timbre Widget will enable the student to open up the sounds,
removing the last black box within the language.
What will you do if you get stuck on your project and your mentor isn't around?
If I get stuck on the project and my mentor isn’t around, I will search about the problem
and will try different approaches until it is solved. If it’s a conceptual bug, I will
strengthen the concept first and then solve it. If the problem still persists,I will try to
finish the other part of the project.
How do you propose you will be keeping the community informed of your
progress and any problems or questions you might have over the course of the
project?
I am highly active on IRC with the nickname Tabs16 and have good communication
over it with my mentors as well as other members of the community. I can keep the
community informed about my progress as well as clear my doubts on the IRC.Morever,
I am in contact with some members of the Sugar Labs Community over email.