Title: Summer of Code/2014/rohitshetty/turtle art 3d
URL: https://wiki.sugarlabs.org/go/Summer_of_Code/2014/rohitshetty/turtle_art_3d
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Turtle Art 3D
﻿
What is your name?
Rohit Shetty
What is your email address?
rohitfoss00@gmail.com
What is your Sugar Labs wiki username?
Rohit Shetty
What is your IRC nickname on irc.freenode.net?
rohitfoss00
What is your first language?
Tulu/kannada/hindi but i am comfortable with English as much as with these
Where are you located, and what hours (UTC) do you tend to work?
Location: mysore,India
time zone: UTC +5:30
Working hours: 12:00 to 21:30 UTC (flexible)
Have you participated in an open-source project before? If so, please send us URLs to your profile pages for those projects, or some other demonstration of the work that you have done in open-source. If not, why do you want to work on an open-source project this summer?
I am new to opensource community contribution. but i have been using lots of opensource products and all/most my projects are opensourced.
github :
https://github.com/rohitshetty00
i want to work with opensource community and this would be a great platform for me!.Also the the lines of code that you write affecting and bringing smile in millions of kids face is large reward!.
About your project
What is the name of your project?
Turtle art 3D
Describe your project in 10-20 sentences. What are you making? Who are you making it for, and why do they need it? What technologies (programming languages, etc.) will you be using?
Turtle Art 3d will be a plugin to existing activity.we will be providing basic features like x,y,z coordinates pitch,roll camera view and other 3D views.this will target young learners to get into logic of programming in more realistic way.
Python,and knowledge of 3D graphics would be required with knowledge of sugar.
What is the timeline for development of your project?
<22 Apr - 5 May (Pre-program week 1)>	familiarizing with the mentor/community,
Discuss the features, field work with potential users and finalize.
<6 May - 20 May        (Pre-program week 2)>	Finalising the design and plan.
<20 May - 27 May>	create a basic plan and activity with basic stuff in place
<27 May - 3 June>	add the basic feature like setxyz,pitch,roll and debug
<3 June - 10 June>	add basic feature camera feel etc and debug
<10 June - 17 June>	add more innovative features,brush up UI
<17 June - 24 June>	debug debug debug and documentation of work untill now
<24 June>	        MID TERM EVALUATIONS
<24 June - 1 July>	add 'sugar syntax' and make code more readable
<1 July - 8 July>	present the betas to kids and community get feedback
<8 July - 22 July>	analyze feedback log all the views change on depending
<22 July - 29 July>	make minor changes if needed
<29 July - 5 August>	buffer
<5 August - 11 August>	add online documentations
<11 August - 18 August>	Wrap up the complete work and submit the code for Final Evaluations
Convince us, in 5-15 sentences, that you will be able to successfully complete your project in the timeline you have described. This is usually where people describe their past experiences, credentials, prior projects, schoolwork, and that sort of thing, but be creative. Link to prior work or other resources as relevant.
I am a self taught programmer/coder with knowledge of C,Python,javascript,html5,css(kindoff).
i am driven by passion towards UI and human interactive softwares and enjoys coding,
my
first
hack in python was with pytle that gave GUI to existing commandline based python/Turtle
(link:
https://github.com/rohitshetty00/pytle
)
second
hack was vipy a GUI environment to cod ein python without need of coding,i.e you dont need to know the synatx of python to code just click the button all synatx will be prrinted to a file.
(link:
https://github.com/rohitshetty00/vipy
)
recently
i wrote a semi-GUI to create impress.js presenations which till now needed to be coded
(www.thinkera.net)
which is also a college startup of mine.
Pynetra
a interactive video maker that will use webcam as input and trace your hand/colored objects movements and will take that as user input. like you can give lectures and simultaneously write on screen with a wave in air.(it is opensourced developed in python,but it still aint uploaded to github as it is in development)
As you can see all/most of my hacks are in python that is the main language used here and as i am a self taught programmer i am prone to work long hours on projects with passion.and
i have a ability to pick up a language /technology on the go
(like i dont know PHP or JAVA but i can cope with when the project needs and code to create stuffs with it)
As interested in HCI it would be easy for me to create more intersting UIs.
Because of all these previous experience i hope to complete the project in time.
You and the community
If your project is successfully completed, what will its impact be on the Sugar Labs community? Give 3 answers, each 1-3 paragraphs in length. The first one should be yours. The other two should be answers from members of the Sugar Labs community, at least one of whom should be a Sugar Labs GSoC mentor. Provide email contact information for non-GSoC mentors.
What i hope.﻿
With this 3D plugin i hope that kids/learner will get to know programming in more clear real world way and also in more humane way.
Walter Bender
Horatio Reggini developed the first 3D Logo project back in the early 1980s. He argued that 3D Logo engaged children in the powerful ideas of perscpective and visual perception. Ironically, in the 30+ years since, while 3D is a large part of our entertainment life, it is largely missing from the tools for learning. None of the popular programming enviroments for children have 3D capabilities. That will change as a direct result of this project. --Walter (talk) 20:18, 19 March 2014 (EDT)
Tony Forster
A 3D programming extension has the potential to be a very valuable contribution to the Sugar community. 3D is highly prized by children and the opportunity to author 3D is highly motivating for them. Motivation is strongly associated with quality learning. The best programming tools for children are low entry and high ceiling, 3D lifts the ceiling quite high. If the perception of low entry can be maintained, that is that the early part of the learning curve is perceived as gradual, then this will be a valuable contribution to the Sugar community. Tonyforster (talk) 01:03, 21 March 2014 (EDT)
What will you do if you get stuck on your project and your mentor isn't around?
As self taught coder i am very much in this situation most of the time,so i will do what i do always when stuck
1.Google
2.More google
3.ask in IRC
4.ask people around
5.Have a walk and think again
6.ask your mentor
How do you propose you will be keeping the community informed of your progress and any problems or questions you might have over the course of the project?
Through wikis ad mailing-list 
through out the summer at the end of the day i will upload the development in wiki
Miscellaneous
We want to make sure that you can set up a development environment before the summer starts. Please do one of the following:
(i am working on installing it has some issues so i am unable to make the logout stuff sorry for that)
I
apologize
for not submitting a patch/bugfix
but i came to know about this project of late and due to issues of  my college test series i had little time.but i will surely take part in sugar development(immaterial of whether this proposal is accepted or not)
Describe a great learning experience you had as a child.
i have a lots of experience to share
the moment i discovered motor if rotated in reverse will act as a generator
the moment i built a music tone player myself with help of guide
the moment i learnt of magnetic compass
Category: 2014 GSoC applications