Title: Summer of Code/2015/WebConfusion
URL: https://wiki.sugarlabs.org/go/Summer_of_Code/2015/WebConfusion
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Contents
1
About Me
2
About your project
3
You and the community
4
Miscellaneous
About Me
What is your name?
Vibhor Sehgal
What is your email address?
sehgalvibhor@gmail.com
What is your Sugar Labs wiki username?
Sehgalvibhor(
http://wiki.sugarlabs.org/go/User:Sehgalvibhor
)
What is your IRC nickname on irc.freenode.net?
sehgalvibhor
What is your first language?
My first language is Hindi. I also know French and English.
Where are you located, and what hours (UTC) do you tend to work?
I live in New Delhi, India. My time-zone is UTC/GMT +5:30. My end term examinations will be ending before the start of this program so I will have a Summer break for 3 months therefore my working hours are totally flexible. I'd be working approximately 7-10 hours a day.So these working hours can be divided into shifts for better efficiency.
Have you participated in an open-source project before? If so, please send us URLs to your profile pages for those projects, or some other demonstration of the work that you have done in open-source. If not, why do you want to work on an open-source project this summer?
I have been actively participating in Open Source since a month now, Understanding the documentation of Sugar Labs. I have been updating the out of date Sugar wiki pages, which are listed on my Wiki Page and trying to fix some Sugar Love Bugs. This project is not only about being Open Source, but for a great purpose of helping the young generation learn new skills. I have been a part of many NGO's but this is the first time I'll be helping people through technology. I am very excited about it.
Link to My wiki Page :
http://wiki.sugarlabs.org/go/User:Sehgalvibhor
About your project
What is the name of your project?
Web Confusion
Describe your project in 10-20 sentences. What are you making? Who are you making it for, and why do they need it? What technologies (programming languages, etc.) will you be using?
Most of the XO computers are located in parts of the world which have little experience with computers and may have no effective access to the internet. At the same time, the kids with the computers would enjoy learning how to make web pages using HTML and CSS. This project aims at teaching kids HTML/CSS at steady pace in an interactive way. Kids of this age group have more enthusiasm so this project would involve creative use of Media like Images,Audios,Videos etc.
Most of the kids will be in Primary Schools (Upto Grade 7). Web Building is one of the most essential need in the present scenario. The earlier the kids learn, with greater enthusiasm and hard work , the better they will get later. The list of challenges, Automated testing of the students response to a challenge are all mentioned in the proposal.
The tutorial Pocket HTML is the introduction I will be using (
http://www.goer.org/HTML/
)
A complete description of the project can be found in the proposal submitted on the Gsoc Website since the project had to be described in 15-20 lines.
Technologies to be used:
For creating the challenges technologies used will be HTML5 and CSS5 compatible with the webkit supported by the XO. Javascript will also be used for the Web Development. All the challenges will be adaptive in nature, difficulty will keep increasing as the student performs well.
What is the timeline for development of your project? The Summer of Code work period is from May 19 - August 22; tell us what you will be working on each week. (As the summer goes on, you and your mentor will adjust your schedule, but it's good to have a plan at the beginning so you have an idea of where you're headed.) Note that you should probably plan to have something "working and 90% done" by the midterm evaluation (27 June); the last steps always take longer than you think, and we will consider cancelling projects which are not mostly working by then.
Time Period
Task
Before 25
th
May
Updating and Modifying 33% Work already completed in the Proposal phase. Challenges will be modified and Tested. Proper prioritizing of the tasks to be done. To-do List ,Getting ready and excitement for the program to begin.
26th May – 6th June
Start preparing tutorials. Refer to various tutorial Sources ,Prepare a rough draft of the tutorials.Collecting and Making Interactive medias(Images,Audios etc) for the tutorials, Combining the Tutorials and Media. Tutorials are ready to be uploaded.
7th June – 13th June
Tutorials + Challenges deployed. Let few students in schools try it out, Collect the feedback from students. Any bug issues , discussion with the mentor. Improvisations to be done.
14th June – 20th June
Start Building the testing feature. Discussing the proper testing methodologies with mentor. Improvising the already set testing techniques specified in the proposal. Testing feature all set.
21st June – 27th June
Tutorials + Challenges + Testing Feature deployed. Feedback from students in schools and mentors. Mid term Evaluation.(90% work complete)
27th June – 30th June
Small Break. Enjoy the Weekend.
1st July – 3rd July
Searching and fixing of bugs. Starting the documentation of the project. Discussing with mentor ,the scope of improvisations.
4th July – 11th July
Start implementing the Add-on features as mentioned in the proposal. Make the Web Pages more attractive .
12th July – 25th July
Complete Web Confusion project + Addons to be deployed and Tested. Collect feedback from students in schools.
26th July – 2nd August
Completing the documentation. Editing Wiki Pages. Fixing Minor issues if any.
3rd August – 15th August
Extra Week just in case if a task doesn't get completed as planned.
16th August – 28th August
Proper Documentation, Perfectly Working Web Site and Final Submission.
Convince us, in 5-15 sentences, that you will be able to successfully complete your project in the timeline you have described. This is usually where people describe their past experiences, credentials, prior projects, schoolwork, and that sort of thing, but be creative. Link to prior work or other resources as relevant.
I have already compiled the challenge list for the Students. This list involves various types of challenges with proper examples so that it is easy to understand them. (These are mentioned in the proposal , will add the link here too.)
I have roughly designed the layout of the how the student will be representing himself to others. Apart from that Created the concept of the Automated Testing tool and some fun add-ons which will make my project completely different from other proposals.
As for the credentials , I have been working on Web Development for a long time now. I also contribute towards my college students startup by designing the web pages. I am really good at sketching ,won many national awards too. I am in Top 5 students of 170 in my department in college.
I have done 2 months Summer Internship at Jubilant Life Sciences , developing a web page using ASP.NET . Runner's up at NASA's Space Settlement Design Competition which reflects I am good at designing too.
You and the community
If your project is successfully completed, what will its impact be on the Sugar Labs community? Give 3 answers, each 1-3 paragraphs in length. The first one should be yours. The other two should be answers from members of the Sugar Labs community, at least one of whom should be a Sugar Labs GSoC mentor. Provide email contact information for non-GSoC mentors.
Me:
I feel , this project brings out the personality of the student. How good he is at grasping things, how well he interacts etc. This will let students start early, which will help them grow faster. I wish I too had these types of resources during my school days, but i didn't . So i want to help other kids to be able to take advantage of these opportunities. Students must get full exposure to these types of challenges, where interactive interface helps them learn faster and in a better way. Just like Turtle Confusion , this project will help kids learn HTML and CSS in a lot better way.
Tony Anderson (Mentor):
The goal of the Web Confusion project is to support primary school children learning to use HTML elements and CSS to build their own web pages.If sucessful, the project will give students examples of web pages that they can use their skills to customize and personalize. The challenges can also show examples of what can be done with html and css (e.g image of web page or sketch with the challenge for the student to do something similar).
This is in partial fulfillment of Sugar's goal to have a low floor and no ceiling.
Sanchit Kapoor :
Children like to learn in a creative manner. Sugar labs activities have always been challenging the creativity of the students. HTML/CSS designing is a way where student can see the colorful results at the moment and get fascinated by it. My opinion is that when they see something this fascinating they will get interested in programming. This project could also serve as a path for how creatively a mind can think.
Email: sanchitlucknow@gmail.com
What will you do if you get stuck on your project and your mentor isn't around?
That's the beauty of Open Source world, Whenever you get stuck there is a whole community to help you out. My mentor has been around almost 90% of the time whenever I have contacted him. If suppose he is not there , I have the Mailing List, My wiki Page , IRC and Other Sugar members. I'd keep working and documenting my work and wait for my mentor to respond back , but the work will surely go on as planned.
How do you propose you will be keeping the community informed of your progress and any problems or questions you might have over the course of the project?
I will be using IRC, Github ,mailing Lists and Wiki Pages to keep the community informed. This project broadly serves kids ,so i would be definitely taking their feedback too for any problems i'd be facing.
Miscellaneous
Describe a great learning experience you had as a child.
I still remember the day when i laid my hands on my first computer. It felt really amazing, however I didn't know much about it's operations so i had to hire a private tutor to teach me how to use it properly but he couldn't teach me well , all my money ended up getting wasted. Then I realized what capability Google had, i learnt everything myself by reading and developing. This experience taught me to be independent and to be dedicated towards my work. Ever since then I put my full effort in whatever I do.
Is there anything else we should have asked you or anything else that we should know that might make us like you or your project more?
Please view my complete project on the Gsoc Website, this page is just a synopsis. I have understood how the documentation on Sugar Wiki works, have been contributing and editing pages. I can devote a lot of time to this project,so i will definitely pull this off if given a chance.
And , I would like to thank Tony for all the effort too, I bothered him a lot. Thanks !