Title: Summer of Code/2009/Robots
URL: https://wiki.sugarlabs.org/go/Summer_of_Code/2009/Robots
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Contents
1
About you
2
About your project
3
You and the community
4
Miscellaneous
About you
What is your name?
Rafael Ortiz
What is your email address?
dirakx---gmail
What is your Sugar Labs wiki username?
RafaelOrtiz
What is your IRC nickname?
dirakx
What is your primary language? (We have mentors who speak multiple languages and can match you with one of them if you'd prefer.)
Spanish-English
Where are you located, and what hours do you tend to work? (We also try to match mentors by general time zone if possible.)
Bogota,Colombia
Have you participated in an open-source project before? If so, please send us URLs to your profile pages for those projects, or some other demonstration of the work that you have done in open-source. If not, why do you want to work on an open-source project this summer?
http://wiki.debian.org/RafaelOrtiz
,
http://wiki.laptop.org/go/User:RafaelOrtiz
About your project
What is the name of your project? Robots
Describe your project in 10-20 sentences. What are you making? Who are you making it for, and why do they need it? What technologies (programming languages, etc.) will you be using?
The main idea is to make an activity that helps children learn programing robots,and that can provide a platform to  help children learn about cybernetics
The scope of the proposal for gsoc would be generating a GUI for emulating different kinds of robots, after gsoc period, focus would be interaction of Robots with the physical world.
i.e controlling physical robots with the code made by emulation.
The theory of this proposal are in one of Marvin Minsky's essays, specially this one
http://wiki.laptop.org/go/Education_and_Psychology
Teaching Cybernetics instead of Psychology
'All this suggests that our ideas about psychology are still developing so rapidly that it wouldn’t make sense for us to select any current “theory of thinking” to teach. So instead, we’ll propose a different approach: to provide our children with ideas they could use to invent their own theories about themselves! The rest of this essay will suggest that such ideas could come from engaging children in projects that involve making machines that have ‘lifelike’ behaviors. Such projects would engage and integrate many concepts that we separately treat today, in Physics, Biology, and Mathematics—and in Social Studies, Psychology, and Economics—along with other important principles that don’t fit into any of those traditional subjects.
A flood of new concepts about what machines could do began to emerge in the 1940s, from research in the field called Cybernetics—which soon then led to other fields called Control Theory, Computer Science, Artificial Intelligence, and Cognitive Psychology. Each of those new sciences brought hosts of new ideas about how to build systems that actually do some of the things we use ‘thinking’ to do. So now, in the spirit of Seymour Papert’s “constructionism,” we can enable our children to experiment with networks composed of collections of parts that support many sorts of knowledge-based processes. 10 This is important because that’s what we are'
the technologies used are python, talking into count already existing programs like pyrobots, the simulations
would be in 2D,(later can be 3D) for example
The students would be able to see the code to the emulation and also working it graphically. but the interest here is to have a platform for the student to be able to construct it's own robots under different bases
For example line-followers, avoid detection, labyrinth solvers and Brainterberg's ideas explored in:
http://people.cs.uchicago.edu/~wiseman/vehicles/
http://instruct.westvalley.edu/lafave/Vehicles_online.html
http://www.cogs.susx.ac.uk/users/christ/popbugs/intro.html
http://mrl.nyu.edu/~perlin/
What is the timeline for development of your project? The Summer of Code work period is 7 weeks long, May 23 - August 10; tell us what you will be working on each week. (As the summer goes on, you and your mentor will adjust your schedule, but it's good to have a plan at the beginning so you have an idea of where you're headed.) Note that you should probably plan to have something "working and 90% done" by the midterm evaluation (July 6-13); the last steps always take longer than you think, and we will consider cancelling projects which are not mostly working by then.
Week 1:would be about setting sugar's enviroment properly and Evaluating ways of doing the platform (pygame, etoys, turtleArt
Week 2: beging to investigate the GUI a pyrobots or Turtle Art extentionsugarization could be the best way to go
Week 3: coding
Week 4: modifying gui to meet sugar standars
Week 5: modyfy gui to add other ideas abut AI
Week 6:testing and wrapping up.
Week 7: testing and wrapping up.
modifying gui to meet sugar standars  5. modyfy gui to add other ideas abut AI  6 and 7 tes
Convince us, in 5-15 sentences, that you will be able to successfully complete your project in the timeline you have described. This is usually where people describe their past experiences, credentials, prior projects, schoolwork, and that sort of thing, but be creative. Link to prior work or other resources as relevant.
My best presentation card here is that I've worked for three years with OLPC and Sugar, and most of this time has been voluntary work. My only interest is that sugar can transform education.
You and the community
If your project is successfully completed, what will its impact be on the Sugar Labs community? Give 3 answers, each 1-3 paragraphs in length. The first one should be yours. The other two should be answers from members of the Sugar Labs community, at least one of whom should be a Sugar Labs GSoC mentor. Provide email contact information for non-GSoC mentors.
Sugar Labs will be working to set up a small (5-30 unit) Sugar pilot near each student project that is accepted to GSoC so that you can immediately see how your work affects children in a deployment. We will make arrangements to either supply or find all the equipment needed. Do you have any ideas on where you would like your deployment to be, who you would like to be involved, and how we can help you and the community in your area begin it?
What will you do if you get stuck on your project and your mentor isn't around?
keep on working and solving problems..
How do you propose you will be keeping the community informed of your progress and any problems or questions you might have over the course of the project?
Wiki and mail lists.
Miscellaneous
We want to make sure that you can set up a
development environment
before the summer starts.
What is your t-shirt size? (Yes, we know Google asks for this already; humor us.) hmm L :)
Describe a great learning experience you had as a child? TBD i'm still a child
Is there anything else we should have asked you or anything else that we should know that might make us like you or your project more
There is an initial work on
http://wiki.laptop.org/go/Peripherals/Robots