Title: Summer of Code/2016/beyondFlashCards
URL: https://wiki.sugarlabs.org/go/Summer_of_Code/2016/beyondFlashCards
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Contents
1
Beyond FlashCards
1.1
About You
1.2
About Project
1.3
Deliverables
2
Web Confusion- Sugar Labs
3
ARGOT - Individual
4
Instastat - Security Labs
5
Built the inventory system of college's Electronics Department
5.1
You and the community
5.2
Miscellaneous
Beyond FlashCards
About You
Name:
:My name is Utkarsh Dhawan, and I am a 2nd year undergraduate student at
KJ Somaiya Institute of Engineering & Information Technology
.
Email-address:
My email address is
dhawan.utkarsh@gmail.com
Sugar Labs wiki username:
My username is
Utkarsh Dhawan
.
IRC nickname on irc.freenode.net"
My IRC nick name is
crusher_e0bc
.
First language:
I am comfortable with both
English
and
Hindi
.
Location:
India(GMT +5:30)
Work hours:
IST 17:00 - 24:00
Open Source Project Experience:
I have been an active member of the sugar community for about an year now and have contributed to projects like WebConfusion,TuxMath etc. I would like to contribute to the community this summer as a GSOC candidate.
About Project
Project Title:
Beyond FlashCards
Project Description:
According to a study,learning is faster through practical activities.Sugar environment is full of such activities.
Deliverables
1.  Implementing CreateJS with sugar-web environment.
2. Data Storage of User’s information.
3. Tracking User’s progress and displaying suitable messages.
4. Implementing tasks#1.
5. Implementing Animations for tasks.
6. Implementing Neighbourhood functionality
7. Documentation of Beyond FlashCards (
https://github.com/crusher95/BeyondFlashCards
)
#1
Tasks list:
Completing Sentences:
The user has to complete sentences using the given options to him or by typing out.
Identifying Objects:
The user has to identify day to day used objects(this is an optional task)
Tell a story:
The user has to describe an animated scene.
Fix a tale:
The user here will have to use logic to  fix the famous tales like the red riding hood,three little pigs etc. in an interactive environment.
Weekly Distribution of Work:
Week
Work
Pre Week 1
Finalizing the tasks.
Week 1
Analyzing potential data sources for the activity.
Week 2-3
Designing basic UI layouts for the activity and Characters for the animations.
Week 3-5
Implementing the tasks and completing animations
Week 5-8
Finishing the collaboration integrating with neighbourhood.
Week 10-12
Testing of Beyond FlashCards and front-end Documentation.
I participate in various Competitions and Project Exhibition to keep track of my skills.The list of some of my works is given below --
Web Confusion- Sugar Labs
July 2015 - PRESENT
https://github.com/crusher95/webconfusion
Developed a web learning environment for sugar.
ARGOT - Individual
https://github.com/crusher95/argot
An open source online Examination system using MongoDB.
Instastat - Security Labs
https://github.com/crusher95/InstaStat
An open source application for statistics of instagram accounts.
Built the inventory system of college's Electronics Department
Link -
http://mysomaiya.com/ems/blue/index.php/auth/login
This project was awarded first prize in Annual Project Exhibition of KJ Somaiya Institute of Engineering & IT.
I have been an active part of the community for quite some time now and have made contributions to various projects like Web Confusion,TuxMath etc. I should be able to complete the project on time since I have a strong background in the technologies that are to be used and I am also clear with the concept of the activity I would be developing.
You and the community
Benefits of this project:
Learning something new can sometimes be monotonous.This activity will help break that monotony.
What will you do if you get stuck on your project and your mentor isn't around?
I have prepared a blog
http://crusher95.wordpress.com
. If no one is around I would post my problems on my blog and wait for suggestions from others.Also I have been active on #sugar IRC.So I will try to clear out my doubts from there.If nothing is possible then I will go ahead with other tasks and wait for my mentor.
How do you propose you will be keeping the community informed of your progress and any problems or questions you might have over the course of the project?
I will send emails to my mentor about my daily progress.Also I would post my progress on my blog.
Miscellaneous
Send us a link to a screenshot of your Sugar development environment with the following modification: when you hover over the XO-person icon in the middle of Home view, the drop-down text should have your email in place of "logout".
Childhood Experience:
My mother was the professor of Multimedia & Web Technologies in my school.When I was in fifth grade I saw my mother working with macromedia flash,I was overwhelmed on seeing the animations and tried to do so myself but failed.This did not stop me and I kept on trying.After repeated attempts I succeeded and this further more increased my interest in this field.