Title: Summer of Code/2014/Improved Imageviewer
URL: https://wiki.sugarlabs.org/go/Summer_of_Code/2014/Improved_Imageviewer
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Contents
1
About You
2
About your project
3
You and the community
4
Miscellaneous
About You
What is your name?
What is your email address
What is your Sugar Labs wiki username?
What is your IRC nickname on irc.freenode.net?
What is your first language? (We have mentors who speak multiple languages and can match you with one of them if you'd prefer.)
Where are you located, and what hours (UTC) do you tend to work? (We also try to match mentors by general time zone if possible.)
Have you participated in an open-source project before? If so, please send us URLs to your profile pages for those projects, or some other demonstration of the work that you have done in open-source. If not, why do you want to work on an open-source project this summer?
About your project
What is the name of your project?
Describe your project in 10-20 sentences. What are you making? Who are you making it for, and why do they need it? What technologies (programming languages, etc.) will you be using?
What is the timeline for development of your project? The Summer of Code work period is from May 19 - August 22; tell us what you will be working on each week. (As the summer goes on, you and your mentor will adjust your schedule, but it's good to have a plan at the beginning so you have an idea of where you're headed.) Note that you should probably plan to have something "working and 90% done" by the midterm evaluation (27 June); the last steps always take longer than you think, and we will consider cancelling projects which are not mostly working by then.
Convince us, in 5-15 sentences, that you will be able to successfully complete your project in the timeline you have described. This is usually where people describe their past experiences, credentials, prior projects, schoolwork, and that sort of thing, but be creative. Link to prior work or other resources as relevant.
You and the community
If your project is successfully completed, what will its impact be on the Sugar Labs community? Give 3 answers, each 1-3 paragraphs in length. The first one should be yours. The other two should be answers from members of the Sugar Labs community, at least one of whom should be a Sugar Labs GSoC mentor. Provide email contact information for non-GSoC mentors.
What will you do if you get stuck on your project and your mentor isn't around?
How do you propose you will be keeping the community informed of your progress and any problems or questions you might have over the course of the project?
Miscellaneous
We want to make sure that you can set up a
development environment
before the summer starts. Please do
one
of the following:
Send us a link to a screenshot of your Sugar development environment with the following modification: when you hover over the XO-person icon in the middle of Home view, the drop-down text should have your email in place of "logout".
Describe a great learning experience you had as a child.