Title: Summer of Code/2015/Web Confusion/Nii Lante
URL: https://wiki.sugarlabs.org/go/Summer_of_Code/2015/Web_Confusion/Nii_Lante
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Contents
1
About You
2
About your project
3
You and the community
4
Miscellaneous
About You
What is your name?
Joseph Nii Lante Lamptey
What is your email address?
niilantewade77@gmail.com
What is your Sugar Labs wiki username?
Nii Lante
What is your IRC nickname on irc.freenode.net?
niilante
What is your first language? (We have mentors who speak multiple languages and can match you with one of them if you'd prefer.)
My first language is English.
Where are you located, and what hours (UTC) do you tend to work? (We also try to match mentors by general time zone if possible.)
I live in Ghana. (Accra, Mamprobi) GMT Zone (UTC+00:00). i intend to work from 7:30 pm to 2:00 am
Have you participated in an open-source project before? If so, please send us URLs to your profile pages for those projects, or some other demonstration of the work that you have done in open-source. If not, why do you want to work on an open-source project this summer?
I am new to the world of open source with just a few months of experience,the reason i want to work on an open-source project this summer is because of the project relevance to me as a budding web programmer, my dream always is to work on a open-source project that aids in the teaching-learning process especially interactive tutorials that makes learning fun.
About your project
What is the name of your project?
Web Confusion
Describe your project in 10-20 sentences. What are you making? Who are you making it for, and why do they need it? What technologies (programming languages, etc.) will you be using?
As a 3rd psychology student,i have learnt in learning theories which i have studied that, learning is an interactive process between a person and a body of knowledge and activities in which the person gets understanding of a knowledge area. Based on the learning theory, i will develop the project by providing stimuli and using psychological principles which aids learning. The Web Confusion project will consist of a series of set of web pages that use images, video and audio interactions to present challenges which will be in different types such as fixing the bugs in code, prediction of output of given code, enhancement of a web pages, modification or even designing of complete web page from scratch to learners who will respond to this stimuli to build their skills in HTML and CSS . It is basically aimed to help learners especially children who are new to web development to build skills. The technologies to be used to build this project will be HTML and CSS and it will be compatible with HTML5 and CSS3.
What is the timeline for development of your project? The Summer of Code work period is from May 19 - August 22; tell us what you will be working on each week. (As the summer goes on, you and your mentor will adjust your schedule, but it's good to have a plan at the beginning so you have an idea of where you're headed.) Note that you should probably plan to have something "working and 90% done" by the midterm evaluation (27 June); the last steps always take longer than you think, and we will consider cancelling projects which are not mostly working by then.
Week
Work
30th April - 16th May
Research and drawing up of design for the project
17th May - 23th May
Writing of code for the activities in the project
25th May- 1st June
Develop the levels of HTML to used in the activity
2nd June - 9th June
Completion of the levels of HTML
10th June - 17th June
Develop the levels of CSS to used in the activity
18th June - 25th June
Completion of the levels of CSS
26th June - 3th July
Integration of modules,Testing for bugs and submission for mid-term evaluation
4th July - 11th July
Start work on the recording function in the project
12th July - 19th July
Integration of recording function and testing for bugs
20th July - 26th July
Reviewing user interface designs and adding final designs to project
26th July - 2nd August
Final integration of all modules and user interface design updates to the project
3rd August - 10th August
Preparation of report on the project
11th August - 18th August
Running of final test on the project
Convince us, in 5-15 sentences, that you will be able to successfully complete your project in the timeline you have described. This is usually where people describe their past experiences, credentials, prior projects, schoolwork, and that sort of thing, but be creative. Link to prior work or other resources as relevant.
Though i have never worked on an open-source project before,my exposure to working on other project mainly my academic school work is very wide, and i always work on assignment projects which are done according to schedule we create and make sure we finish in time as we move according to our set timeline each time we meet.
You and the community
If your project is successfully completed, what will its impact be on the Sugar Labs community? Give 3 answers, each 1-3 paragraphs in length. The first one should be yours. The other two should be answers from members of the Sugar Labs community, at least one of whom should be a Sugar Labs GSoC mentor. Provide email contact information for non-GSoC mentors.
Me: The impact of this project will be really felt in the lives of the development skills of the learners. Since the sugar community is all about learning,users of sugar and members can recommend this project for others to use when its successfully completed because the project is aimed to make HTML and CSS skills easy to build and fun to learn.
What will you do if you get stuck on your project and your mentor isn't around?
I will research to find out the origin of the problem, the internet has so many resources i can get information from and also i will contact the irc channel or an experienced developer to help me fix the problem i encounter, sometimes most bugs result due to mere incorrect code.
How do you propose you will be keeping the community informed of your progress and any problems or questions you might have over the course of the project?
i will use IRC, Github and Mailing Lists to keep the community informed of the progress of my project and also request feedback from them to see how they experienced and what they expect to find in the project , i will also constantly interact with my mentor to update him on the progress of the project,share ideas and also when i am faced with problems i cannot fix.
Miscellaneous
We want to make sure that you can set up a
development environment
before the summer starts. Please do
one
of the following:
Send us a link to a screenshot of your Sugar development environment with the following modification: when you hover over the XO-person icon in the middle of Home view, the drop-down text should have your email in place of "logout".
Send us a link to a pull request or merge request you have made on a Sugar or Sugar activity bug.
It's normal to need assistance with this, so please visit our IRC channel, #sugar on irc.freenode.net, and ask for help.
https://plus.google.com/u/0/photos/110484114298663363527/albums/6130349973782638225/6130349979662013138
Describe a great learning experience you had as a child.
One great learning experience i had which i very still remember was when i had my very first gameboy color which a friend gave me as a gift with a pokemon yellow cartridge and the pokemon book. I really learnt all the pokemons fast and all their attacks and strengths and my favourite pokemon was pikachu. This drive got me to see how to learn things and apply those things i have learnt to achieve something.
Is there anything else we should have asked you or anything else that we should know that might make us like you or your project more
Learning as a child with all the enabling environment is a sure tool to build up real knowledge for the future since the child is interacting with the fast solution that provides and builds up knowledge. When i first learnt of the one-laptop-per-child program of Sugar Labs, i was happy but noticed it not available in all countries, there are children who really have the passion to learn to develop software but are denied that opportunity to really learn since they may not even own their laptop.With the inception of this project which is a interactive teaching-learning tool, i hope sugar labs will extend their program by donating to other countries to help children to learn to impact the open-source world.