Title: Summer of Code/Raphael Teyssandier
URL: https://wiki.sugarlabs.org/go/Summer_of_Code/Raphael_Teyssandier
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Contents
1
Proposal
2
About You
3
About your project
4
Librairies
5
TimeLine
Proposal
I’m Raphaël Teyssandier, I’m 22 years old. I’m in 4 years at Epitech Paris. I have been working in Android for almost 2 years, I have done 3 internship in 2 different entreprise.
I’m currently in a internship at TeepTrak where I’m developing application in Android, for industry use. And I’m working on the Android part for my EIP, it's a 2 years project where we must create a new thing (like a start-up) from scratch. Currently we are 6 members on this project named weezyu ("with you").
Sugarizer is very interesting, the part of control a Android Device by adb can be very useful for the futur. How to manage the Wi-Fi from the computer can be very interesting.
About You
What is your name ?
My name is Raphael Teyssandier, I am a 4th year student at Epitech Paris.
What is your email address ?
raphael.teyssandier@epitech.eu
What is your first language ?
My native language is French, but I spent 6 month in South Africa.
Where are you located, and what hours (UTC) do you tend to work?
I’m located in Gagny, France. It’s near Paris.
I’m planning to work 10:00 - 18:00 everyday of the week.
Have you participated in an open-source project before ? If so, please send us URLs to your profile pages for those projects, or some other demonstration of the work that you have done in open-source. If not why do you want to work on an open-source project this summer?
I never participated to a open-source project. But I got a proposition by Lionel Laské and decided to register.
About your project
What is the name of your project?
Sugarizer Deployment and Management Tool for Android.
Describe your project in 10-20 sentences.What are you making ? Who are you making it for, and why do they need it? What technologies (programming languages, etc.) will you be using? What is the timeline for the development of your project? The Summer of Code work period is from 30 May to 21 August; tell us what you will be working on each week. (As the summer goes on, you and your mentor will adjust your schedule. but it’s a good to have a plan at the beginning so you have an idea of where you’re headed.) Note that you should probably plan to have something “working and 90% done” by the midterm evaluation.; the last steps always take longer than you think, and we will consider cancelling project which are not mostly working by then.
This project will be a platform desktop for the configuration of the tablet Android. It will be working on GNU/Linux, Mac and Windows. To deploy and configure Android devices, we will be using ADB (Android Debug Devices). The following action will be available :
Inventory : Collect and store devices data like serial number, os version, device name, installed applications, current Android launcher and Sugarizer availability.
Application Manager : Install or remove applications using APK files.
File Manager : Add / Remove files
Input Manager : Click / Touch coordinates on the screen, launch applications to perform automations.
Scenario Writer : Allow non developpers to create sequences to perform all the steps previously defined.
This project will be writing in Java/JavaFX/Android.
Librairies
JADB to perform ADB command and action.
Maybe other libraries, in function of what it’s needed.
TimeLine
Week 0
Research and lecture on ADB documentation. And which pattern to use.
Week 1 - 30 May
Listing devices
Testing library JADB and what you can to do with it
Week 2 - 5 June
Collect and store devices data
Add APK Folder (store it)
Listing APK from the folder
Listing Application installed on specific devices
Week 3 - 12 June
Install or remove applications from devices
Listing folder/file on Devices
Add / Remove file on devices
Week 4 - 19 June
InputManager
Week 5 - 26 June
Scenario Writer
Week 6 - 3 July
Testing on differentes platform
Search Bug
Bug fixing
Week 7 - 10 July
Checking List Device and informations storing
Bug hunting
Bug fixing
Week 8 - 17 July
Checking APK folder (Add/Listing/etc..)
Bug hunting
Bug fixing
Week 9 - 24 July
Checking List App installed on device (Add / Remove)
Bug hunting
Bug fixing
Week 10 - 31 July
Checking List File (App / Remove)
Bug hunting
Bug fixing
Week 11 - 7 August
Checking Input Manager
Bug hunting
Bug fixing
Week 12 - 14 August
Checking Scenario Writer
Bug hunting
Bug fixing
Week 13 - 21 August
Last check
Bug hunting
Bug fixing
Convince us, in 5-15 sentences, that you will be able to successfully complete your project in the timeline you have described. This is usually where people describe their past experiences, credentials, prior projects, schoolwork, and that sort of thing, but be creative. Link to prior work or other resources as relevant.
I’m working in android since 2 years now. I have 2.44 GPA. And I have working on a project for Lionel Laské, in Android.
I’m also working in Android on my  EIP (Epitech Innovative Project). It will be a multi platform to search partner or opponent to play sport, video game and platform game.
Currently, I’m in a internship at TeepTrak (teeptrak.com), where I develop multiple apps, for industry use. I use different technologies like BTLE (Bluetooth Low Energy). The all concept of the main application, is to communicate with our module bluetooth, which is connected to different capteur.
You and the community
If your project is successfully completed, what will its impact be on the Sugar Labs community? Give 3 answers, each 1-3 paragraphs in length. The first one should be yours. The other two should be answers from members of the Sugar Labs community, at least one of whom should be a Sugar Labs GSoC mentor. Provide email contact information for non-GSoC mentors.
My answer:
I think, it will make the use of sugarlizer and the maintenance easier. This software will allow user to configure multiple tablet for the same configuration. And reconfigure one, in express in case of one of the tablet dies. It just will make it easier for teacher.
Micheal Ohayon
The Deployment and Management Tool for Android is a mandatory tool for Sugarizer deployments.
This project will allow anyone to install new devices onto a deployment site with a clear and simple UI.
Doing this project will avoid loosing time onto several boring tasks like installing applications, applying configurations, fetch serial numbers.
This tool is a way to deploy classroom in minutes for non technical people.
That is a key changer for deploying Sugarizer
Lionel Laské
The first step in a deployment is always device installation. With the Sugarizer Deployment and Management Tool, we hope to allow deploying and managing Sugarizer OS devices as simple as deploying XO laptop today. More: we hope that any teacher in a school could easily create its own deployment routine. It will be a major benefit for deploying Sugarizer in schools.
What will you do if you get stuck on your project and your mentor isn't around?
I will ask the community, friends colleagues. But usually, I search on StackOverflow, and if i don’t find any response, I will ask one on.
How do you propose you will be keeping the community informed of your progress and any problems or questions you might have over the course of the project?
I will try to make my commit message clear and helpful.
Create a page on the wiki, with the progress and the explication of each party.
Miscellanous