Title: Summer of Code/2015/n0x3u5:WebConfusion
URL: https://wiki.sugarlabs.org/go/Summer_of_Code/2015/n0x3u5:WebConfusion
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Contents
1
About Me
2
About My Project
3
You and the community
4
Miscellaneous
About Me
What is your name?
Nakshatra Mukhopadhyay
What is your email address?
nakshatra.mukhopadhyay1994@gmail.com
What is your Sugar Labs wiki username?
n0x3u5
What is your IRC nickname on irc.freenode.net?
n0x3u5
What is your first language? (We have mentors who speak multiple languages and can match you with one of them if you'd prefer.)
Bengali, English
Where are you located, and what hours (UTC) do you tend to work? (We also try to match mentors by general time zone if possible.)
I am located at Hindmotor, West Bengal, India. I'm an Undergraduate at the moment so I don't work anywhere yet. Typical college hours are from 3:30 till 13:30 UTC. After which I'm free to code till 20:00 UTC or until I fall asleep in front of my PC!
Have you participated in an open-source project before? If so, please send us URLs to your profile pages for those projects, or some other demonstration of the work that you have done in open-source. If not, why do you want to work on an open-source project this summer?
No. I haven't. Open Source is a new concept that I have stumbled upon and one that I find incredibly fascinating. Leveraging the power of a global community of developers to critique and help out with code and make the world better! How awesome is that, right?! Sorry, got carried away a bit there. In essence my wish to work on an Open Source Project is fueled by curiosity and  will to do the world some good.
About My Project
What is the name of your project?
Describe your project in 10-20 sentences. What are you making? Who are you making it for, and why do they need it? What technologies (programming languages, etc.) will you be using?
What is the timeline for development of your project? The Summer of Code work period is from May 19 - August 22; tell us what you will be working on each week. (As the summer goes on, you and your mentor will adjust your schedule, but it's good to have a plan at the beginning so you have an idea of where you're headed.) Note that you should probably plan to have something "working and 90% done" by the midterm evaluation (27 June); the last steps always take longer than you think, and we will consider cancelling projects which are not mostly working by then.
Convince us, in 5-15 sentences, that you will be able to successfully complete your project in the timeline you have described. This is usually where people describe their past experiences, credentials, prior projects, schoolwork, and that sort of thing, but be creative. Link to prior work or other resources as relevant.
You and the community
If your project is successfully completed, what will its impact be on the Sugar Labs community? Give 3 answers, each 1-3 paragraphs in length. The first one should be yours. The other two should be answers from members of the Sugar Labs community, at least one of whom should be a Sugar Labs GSoC mentor. Provide email contact information for non-GSoC mentors.
What will you do if you get stuck on your project and your mentor isn't around?
How do you propose you will be keeping the community informed of your progress and any problems or questions you might have over the course of the project?
Miscellaneous
We want to make sure that you can set up a
development environment
before the summer starts. Please do
one
of the following:
Send us a link to a screenshot of your Sugar development environment with the following modification: when you hover over the XO-person icon in the middle of Home view, the drop-down text should have your email in place of "logout".
Send us a link to a pull request or merge request you have made on a Sugar or Sugar activity bug.
It's normal to need assistance with this, so please visit our IRC channel, #sugar on irc.freenode.net, and ask for help.
Describe a great learning experience you had as a child.
Is there anything else we should have asked you or anything else that we should know that might make us like you or your project more?
Please include the category tag at the bottom of your page the Catagory tag for 2015 GSoC applications.