Title: Summer of Code/2015/Li Sichen/Music Blocks
URL: https://wiki.sugarlabs.org/go/Summer_of_Code/2015/Li_Sichen/Music_Blocks
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Contents
1
About Me
2
About my project
3
You and the community
4
Miscellaneous
About Me
What is your name?
Li Sichen
What is your email address?
kdwycz@gmail.com
What is your Sugar Labs wiki username?
kdwycz
What is your IRC nickname on irc.freenode.net?
kdwycz
What is your first language? (We have mentors who speak multiple languages and can match you with one of them if you'd prefer.)
Chinese
Where are you located, and what hours (UTC) do you tend to work? (We also try to match mentors by general time zone if possible.)
My location : NanChang, China
UTC + 8:00 (Beijing Standard Time)
Working Hours (flexible): (UTC + 8:00) 8:00 - 12:00 and 13:00 - 18:00
Have you participated in an open-source project before? If so, please send us URLs to your profile pages for those projects, or some other demonstration of the work that you have done in open-source. If not, why do you want to work on an open-source project this summer?
I’m an open-source software users , and hope to participate in the open source software development very much. I think Sugar Labs project makes sense and cool . I would like to participate in the development of the project. I think the Chinese students also need this  software , hoping to do some localization and promote work
About my project
What is the name of your project?
Music Blocks
Describe your project in 10-20 sentences. What are you making? Who are you making it for, and why do they need it? What technologies (programming languages, etc.) will you be using?
The project 'Music Blocks' aims for teaching the kids the basic music concepts of scale, beat, chord, phrasing, sequencing, transformations, etc. Learning music can bring many benefits : a study of music kids can develop perseverance , attention, imagination, intelligence can improve kids' logical thinking ability in particular . 2. Music can regulate mood , so that kids relax, thereby enhancing memory, improve kid's learning ability to accept . 3. You can improve the kid's temperament and quality of life by learning and playing music , so that kids are better able to control and regulate their own behavior. 4. be able to experience the fun of a lifetime musical event.
Like other modules need to use HTML5 / JavaScript development.
What is the timeline for development of your project? The Summer of Code work period is from May 19 - August 22; tell us what you will be working on each week. (As the summer goes on, you and your mentor will adjust your schedule, but it's good to have a plan at the beginning so you have an idea of where you're headed.) Note that you should probably plan to have something "working and 90% done" by the midterm evaluation (27 June); the last steps always take longer than you think, and we will consider cancelling projects which are not mostly working by then.
Weeks
Expected Tasks
28nd April - 18th May
Study basics and communication
May 19 - May 23
Develop Extension 1 – Plug in
May 24 - May 30
Develop Extension 1 – Plug in
May 31 - June 6
Develop Extension 2 – Musical Manipluatives
Jun 7 - June 13
Develop Extension 2 – Musical Manipluatives
Jun 14 - June 20
Develop Extension 3 – Beat Manipulatives
Jun 21 - June 27
Develop Extension 3 – Beat Manipulatives
Mid Term Evaluation
Jun 28 - July 4
Develop Extension 4 – Automation
July 5 - July 11
Develop Extension 4 – Automation
July 12 - July 18
Develop Extension 5 – Application Interaction
July 19 - July 25
Develop Extension 5 – Application Interaction
July 26 - August 1
Develop Extension 6 – Learning Coding Logic via Musical Concepts
August 2 - August 8
Develop Extension 6 – Learning Coding Logic via Musical Concepts
August 9 - August 15
optimize code & fix bugs
August 16 - August 22
optimize code & fix bugs
August 23 - August 24
Document the project
Convince us, in 5-15 sentences, that you will be able to successfully complete your project in the timeline you have described. This is usually where people describe their past experiences, credentials, prior projects, schoolwork, and that sort of thing, but be creative. Link to prior work or other resources as relevant.
I have strong programming skills and self-learning ability , although don’t have Open source software development experience. And I have a very ample time to learn and develop . My English is not strong, but enough to be able to chat , e-mail , and project documentation.
Competition experiences：
The 2014 ACM-ICPC Asia Xian Regional Contest Honorable Mention
Blue Bridge Cup programming competition Jiangxi preliminaries(Rank 1/300+)
Blue Bridge Cup programming competition finals(Rank 51/1000+)
FIRA SimuroSot 5v5 Third Prize
My Skills:
Languages : C, C++, JavaScript , Python
Web Design / Web Applications: HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, jQuery, Bootstrap, Django
OS: Linux(Ubuntu), Android, Windows
Relevant Projects in Past:
Address-Standardization
https://github.com/kdwycz/Address-Standardization
Raspberry Pi smart car
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=FZPSciRWvA8
You and the community
If your project is successfully completed, what will its impact be on the Sugar Labs community? Give 3 answers, each 1-3 paragraphs in length. The first one should be yours. The other two should be answers from members of the Sugar Labs community, at least one of whom should be a Sugar Labs GSoC mentor. Provide email contact information for non-GSoC mentors.
Me: First, the project is completed to give Sugar labs bring a Music blocks. Then,I contacted the development of open source software by Sugar labs. I hope in the future to continue to contribute to this project. Finally, I hope that this software is translated into Chinese, and to promote in China, so that more Chinese children benefit from this project.
What will you do if you get stuck on your project and your mentor isn't around?
If mentor is not around i will depend on google, baidu, stackoverflow, IRC, etc.
How do you propose you will be keeping the community informed of your progress and any problems or questions you might have over the course of the project?
I will create a Special column on my wordpress blog.
Miscellaneous
Describe a great learning experience you had as a child.
I was young at the time of contact with the computer, I always kept the computer broke(software breakdown), and then find out how to repair. I think the motivation to learn is interest, the method is to keep trying and not afraid to make mistakes