Title: Summer of Code/Template
URL: https://wiki.sugarlabs.org/go/Summer_of_Code/Template
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
NOTE:
The content of this page is considered
DEPRECATED and OBSOLETE
It is preserved for historical research, along with its
talk page
.
This content is deprecated. Please refer to
https://github.com/sugarlabs/GSoC/blob/master/Template.md
Contents
1
Proposals Template
1.1
About You
1.2
About your project
1.3
You and the community
1.4
Miscellaneous
Proposals Template
You should answer the questions found below and submit your proposal as a PDF to the
Google Summer of Code website
. Also, please share your proposal with potential mentors and members of the Sugar community whom might be able to offer advice.
You are also welcome to (not required to) post your proposal in the wiki in a page like:
http://wiki.sugarlabs.org/go/Summer_of_Code/Template
All proposals that are accepted will be posted to the wiki.
About You
What is your name?
What is your email address?
What is your Sugar Labs wiki username?
What is your IRC nickname on irc.freenode.net?
What is your first language? (We have mentors who speak multiple languages and can match you with one of them if you'd prefer.)
Where are you located, and what hours (UTC) do you tend to work? (We also try to match mentors by general time zone if possible.)
Have you participated in an open-source project before? If so, please send us URLs to your profile pages for those projects, or some other demonstration of the work that you have done in open-source. If not, why do you want to work on an open-source project this summer?
About your project
We are looking for projects that will enhance the Sugar Learning Platform. Please consider how your project will have impact on children learning.
What is the name of your project?
Describe your project in 10-20 sentences. What are you making? Who are you making it for, and why do they need it? What technologies (programming languages, etc.) will you be using?
What is the timeline for development of your project? The Summer of Code work period is from mid-May  to mid-August; tell us what you will be working on each week. (As the summer goes on, you and your mentor will adjust your schedule, but it's good to have a plan at the beginning so you have an idea of where you're headed.) Note that you should probably plan to have something "working and 90% done" by the midterm evaluation (end of June); the last steps always take longer than you think, and we will consider cancelling projects which are not mostly working by then.
Convince us, in 5-15 sentences, that you will be able to successfully complete your project in the timeline you have described. This is usually where people describe their past experiences, credentials, prior projects, schoolwork, and that sort of thing, but be creative. Link to prior work or other resources as relevant.
You and the community
If your project is successfully completed, what will its impact be on the Sugar Labs community? Give 3 answers, each 1-3 paragraphs in length. The first one should be yours. The other two should be answers from members of the Sugar Labs community, at least one of whom should be a Sugar Labs GSoC mentor. Provide email contact information for non-GSoC mentors.
What will you do if you get stuck on your project and your mentor isn't around?
How do you propose you will be keeping the community informed of your progress and any problems or questions you might have over the course of the project?
Miscellaneous
We want to make sure that you can set up a
development environment
before the summer starts. Please do
one
of the following:
Send us a link to a screenshot of your Sugar development environment with the following modification: when you hover over the XO-person icon in the middle of Home view, the drop-down text should have your email in place of "logout".
Send us a link to a pull request or merge request you have made on a Sugar or Sugar activity bug.
It's normal to need assistance with this, so please visit our IRC channel, #sugar on irc.freenode.net, and ask for help.
If you plan to work on Sugar-Web projects we want to be sure that you're familiar with web technologies, so:
Clone the
Sugarizer repository
Using instructions
here
develop your first Sugar-Web activity
Send us a screenshot of your new activity executed in Sugarizer
Describe a great learning experience you had as a child.
Is there anything else we should have asked you or anything else that we should know that might make us like you or your project more?
Please include the category tag at the bottom of your page the Category tag for 2018 GSoC applications.