Title: Summer of Code/2011
URL: https://wiki.sugarlabs.org/go/Summer_of_Code/2011
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Project candidates
A list of projects potential participants might contribute within GSoC program. Every project is shortly described with mentioning secondary skills for possible participants (the primal skill is desire to do something useful).
Sugar Doers Kit (SDK)
SDK
is not a single project but an infrastructure to help people code and share their work in Sugar in effective as possible manner.
Involved projects:
Take part in patching
OBS
to make it useful in SDK. OBS will be used as universal build farm for binary based sugar projects and hosting service for all projects.
Secondary skills: perl
Take part in developing
sweets
,
0install
based Sugar PMS libraries and tools.
Secondary skills: python
Take part in developing
polyol
library, sugar-toolkit replacement written in Vala to write Sugar UI based activities not only in Python.
Secondary skills: vala, python
Contacts
:
alsroot
Literate programming of Sugar activities using Wiki
Literate programming might be really useful to code Sugar tutorial activities. See
FRAM
home page for details.
Secondary skills: php
Contacts
:
ask
alsroot
for FRAM developers contacts or see on its home page
Proposals Template
Put and fill your proposal template at a page like:
http://wiki.sugarlabs.org/go/Summer_of_Code/2011/YourProposal
Contents
1
Project candidates
1.1
Sugar Doers Kit (SDK)
1.1.1
Contacts
:
1.2
Literate programming of Sugar activities using Wiki
1.2.1
Contacts
:
2
Proposals Template
2.1
About you
2.2
About your project
2.3
You and the community
2.4
Miscellaneous
About you
What is your name?
What is your email address?
What is your Sugar Labs wiki username?
What is your IRC nickname?
What is your primary language? (We have mentors who speak multiple languages and can match you with one of them if you'd prefer.)
Where are you located, and what hours do you tend to work? (We also try to match mentors by general time zone if possible.)
Have you participated in an open-source project before? If so, please send us URLs to your profile pages for those projects, or some other demonstration of the work that you have done in open-source. If not, why do you want to work on an open-source project this summer?
About your project
What is the name of your project?
Describe your project in 10-20 sentences. What are you making? Who are you making it for, and why do they need it? What technologies (programming languages, etc.) will you be using?
What is the timeline for development of your project? The Summer of Code work period is 7 weeks long, May 23 - August 10; tell us what you will be working on each week. (As the summer goes on, you and your mentor will adjust your schedule, but it's good to have a plan at the beginning so you have an idea of where you're headed.) Note that you should probably plan to have something "working and 90% done" by the midterm evaluation (July 6-13); the last steps always take longer than you think, and we will consider cancelling projects which are not mostly working by then.
Convince us, in 5-15 sentences, that you will be able to successfully complete your project in the timeline you have described. This is usually where people describe their past experiences, credentials, prior projects, schoolwork, and that sort of thing, but be creative. Link to prior work or other resources as relevant.
You and the community
If your project is successfully completed, what will its impact be on the Sugar Labs community? Give 3 answers, each 1-3 paragraphs in length. The first one should be yours. The other two should be answers from members of the Sugar Labs community, at least one of whom should be a Sugar Labs GSoC mentor. Provide email contact information for non-GSoC mentors.
What will you do if you get stuck on your project and your mentor isn't around?
How do you propose you will be keeping the community informed of your progress and any problems or questions you might have over the course of the project?
Miscellaneous
We want to make sure that you can set up a
development environment
before the summer starts. Please send us a link to a screenshot of your Sugar development environment with the following modification: when you hover over the XO-person icon in the middle of Home view, the drop-down text should have your email in place of "Restart." See the image on the right for an example. It's normal to need assistance with this, so please visit our IRC channel, #sugar on irc.freenode.net, and ask for help.
What is your t-shirt size? (Yes, we know Google asks for this already; humor us.)
Describe a great learning experience you had as a child.
Is there anything else we should have asked you or anything else that we should know that might make us like you or your project more?
For examples see:
Category:2010 GSoC applications