Title: Summer of Code/2009/Sugartitanium
URL: https://wiki.sugarlabs.org/go/Summer_of_Code/2009/Sugartitanium
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
What is your name?
Rafael Ortiz
What is your email address?
dirakx---gmail
What is your Sugar Labs wiki username?
RafaelOrtiz
What is your IRC nickname?
dirakx
What is your primary language? (We have mentors who speak multiple languages and can match you with one of them if you'd prefer.)
Spanish-English
Where are you located, and what hours do you tend to work? (We also try to match mentors by general time zone if possible.)
Bogota,Colombia
Have you participated in an open-source project before? If so, please send us URLs to your profile pages for those projects, or some other demonstration of the work that you have done in open-source. If not, why do you want to work on an open-source project this summer?
http://wiki.debian.org/RafaelOrtiz
,
http://wiki.laptop.org/go/User:RafaelOrtiz
About your project
What is the name of your project? SugarTitanium
Describe your project in 10-20 sentences. What are you making? Who are you making it for, and why do they need it? What technologies (programming languages, etc.) will you be using?
Titanium es una plataforma abierta para constuir aplicaciones de escritorio con html, javasctipt y css, que tal si pudieramos utilizar titanium para desarrollar aplicaciones para sugar ?.
Sugar-titanium sera entonces una actividad que permita desarrollar aplicaciones para Sugar utilizando las faicilidades del desarrollo web.
Titanium is an open platform to develop  desktop applications with html, javascript and css.
and what if that we can do this applications inside Sugar through and activity ?. We don't have to worry about sugarization, Sugar titanium must provide the bases to do the application and then sugarize it.
Sugar-titanium, would be then, an activity that allows the development of sugar application using the features of web development
What is the timeline for development of your project? The Summer of Code work period is 7 weeks long, May 23 - August 10; tell us what you will be working on each week. (As the summer goes on, you and your mentor will adjust your schedule, but it's good to have a plan at the beginning so you have an idea of where you're headed.) Note that you should probably plan to have something "working and 90% done" by the midterm evaluation (July 6-13); the last steps always take longer than you think, and we will consider cancelling projects which are not mostly working by then.
Week 1: Work with titanium PR3 and evaluate it's state
Week 2: According to first week initiate sugar and titanium likeness.
Week 3: SUgarization of the SDK
Week 4: Making applications inside sugar-titanium
Week 5: What are the results of the applications how can they be sugarized ?
Week 6: examples of sugarizing applications inside titanium app
Week 7: deliveravle..what to do next ?.
Convince us, in 5-15 sentences, that you will be able to successfully complete your project in the timeline you have described. This is usually where people describe their past experiences, credentials, prior projects, schoolwork, and that sort of thing, but be creative. Link to prior work or other resources as relevant.
My best presentation card here is that I've worked for three years with OLPC and Sugar, and most of this time has been voluntary work. My only interest is that sugar can transform education.
You and the community
If your project is successfully completed, what will its impact be on the Sugar Labs community? Give 3 answers, each 1-3 paragraphs in length. The first one should be yours. The other two should be answers from members of the Sugar Labs community, at least one of whom should be a Sugar Labs GSoC mentor. Provide email contact information for non-GSoC mentors.
The impact of this project would be broaden the base of sugar activities, having the advantage of working with web development technologies.
Sugar Labs will be working to set up a small (5-30 unit) Sugar pilot near each student project that is accepted to GSoC so that you can immediately see how your work affects children in a deployment. We will make arrangements to either supply or find all the equipment needed. Do you have any ideas on where you would like your deployment to be, who you would like to be involved, and how we can help you and the community in your area begin it?
What will you do if you get stuck on your project and your mentor isn't around?
I will keep finding ways to solve things
How do you propose you will be keeping the community informed of your progress and any problems or questions you might have over the course of the project?
Trough the wiki and mail lists
Miscellaneous
We want to make sure that you can set up a
development environment
before the summer starts.
What is your t-shirt size? (Yes, we know Google asks for this already; humor us.)
This is a typical mel's question :).
Describe a great learning experience you had as a child.
TBD I'm still a child :).
Is there anything else we should have asked you or anything else that we should know that might make us like you or your project more ?
Nope