Title: Summer of Code/2014/ayush/js-collaboration
URL: https://wiki.sugarlabs.org/go/Summer_of_Code/2014/ayush/js-collaboration
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
What is your name? -Ayush Tiwari
What is your email address? -tiwari.ayush2412@gmail.com
What is your Sugar Labs wiki username? -Ayush tiwari
What is your IRC nickname on irc.freenode.net? -ayu24
What is your first language? (We have mentors who speak multiple languages and can match you with one of them if you'd prefer.) -English
Where are you located, and what hours (UTC) do you tend to work? (We also try to match mentors by general time zone if possible.) -My location is: UTC + 5:30 i.e. Indian Time zone . I prefer to work between 1-5 PM and 10PM-3AM as per IST time . However , it can be changed according to goals desired.
Have you participated in an open-source project before? If so, please send us URLs to your profile pages for those projects, or some other demonstration of the work that you have done in open-source. If not, why do you want to work on an open-source project this summer? -Yes, I have participated in few open source projects.One of which is in Google Hackathon at my college campus- Google Hackathon(Syntax error) Election Guess (19-20 October, 2013 ) Election Guess uses the scraped data of previous Indian elections to guess the results of the next election in a given constituency based on the some questions .It uses Django combined with a python script to give results.(
https://github.com/tiwariayush/electionguess
) . Also, I was working on some bugs for scrapy , though they aren't merged till now.
About your project
What is the name of your project? -JavaScript Collaboration for Sugar
Describe your project in 10-20 sentences. What are you making? Who are you making it for, and why do they need it? What technologies (programming languages, etc.) will you be using? -What are you making- This project is about making the sugar environment more user-friendly with the use of javascript .It will integrate HTML5 with jquery to make activities udated with time . Also , it will help in making mechanism to share between the activities.A JavaScript framework will expose Sugar Features to HTML5 activities.This framework will allow to use HTML controls matching the Sugar widgets and will expose common and customized activity toolbars .
Who are you making it for-Large part of sugar incorporate with web activities that do need javascript collaboration to work in a better way . Making it more js based will attract children to use sugar-web to access internet.
What technologies will you be using-I will be using javascript and ajax to provide instant updation . Also , I have planned to usen json data to display objects on the page .
What is the timeline for development of your project? The Summer of Code work period is from May 19 - August 22; tell us what you will be working on each week. (As the summer goes on, you and your mentor will adjust your schedule, but it's good to have a plan at the beginning so you have an idea of where you're headed.) Note that you should probably plan to have something "working and 90% done" by the midterm evaluation (27 June); the last steps always take longer than you think, and we will consider cancelling projects which are not mostly working by then.
Pre 19th May -Get around with Sugar Code and Web framework and talking with mentors on the collaboration strategy.
19 May-26 May- Begin coding for javascript mechanism to share between the strategy. 26 May-2 June-Complete the basic sharing between any two mechanism , most probably between sugar-web and any other activity (chat).
2 June-9 June-Fixing bugs and flaws on sharing mechanism between the activities.
9 June- 16 June-Start incorporating the mechanism for other activities as well as fixing bugs in all activities.
16 June-23 June-All features in collaboration be nearing completion.Sharing interface should be clean and easy to use and working by this time. More bug fixing .
23 June-30 June-Mid term evaluation. Discussing with mentors about changes needed . Post a blog regarding experience in the GSOC.
30 June-7 July-Start work on update guide in web-activities.
7 July-21 July-Improve the on-time updation on all activities and use it in sharing-mechanism among activities.
21 July-28 July-Fix bug in updation guide and add ajax features in it.
28 July-4 August-Finalize the update feature and fixing bugs in it.
4 August-11 August-Make documentation on sharing mechanism among activities and update.
11 August-18 August-Recheck and make tests on activities . Request for feedbacks .
18 August-26 August-Prepare and submit code to google.
Convince us, in 5-15 sentences, that you will be able to successfully complete your project in the timeline you have described. This is usually where people describe their past experiences, credentials, prior projects, schoolwork, and that sort of thing, but be creative. Link to prior work or other resources as relevant. -Along side my open source experience, I've developed a few other applications in Python/Django for my college's intranet portal.I have been a part of intranet management group of my college.Some of the apps I made there are listed below . Unfortunately however, I cannot share the code of these applications since the code officially belongs to the institute.
Development of Sports-feed app (August - September 2013) Sports-feed is an app which uses python scripting and Beautiful Soup to provides users with live scores and results by scraping the XML files of various sports sites . Till now , it provide live scores of soccer and cricket matches with the help the ajax and cron which keeps it updated every 5 seconds .
Information Management Group(IIT Roorkee) Valentine app(Connect-e-Dil) (25 January- 7 February 2014) It is the most used app in IITR intranet which provides the facility to send roses and wishes to one another . Made on Django platform and tornado server , it has features such as Shout Box , Anon messages , leaderboard , pickify(as in fb) , etc. 14000 roses were send in the whole valentine week just in our college campus.
You and the community
If your project is successfully completed, what will its impact be on the Sugar Labs community? Give 3 answers, each 1-3 paragraphs in length. The first one should be yours. The other two should be answers from members of the Sugar Labs community, at least one of whom should be a Sugar Labs GSoC mentor. Provide email contact information for non-GSoC mentors. -Me-If this project is successfully completed , this can be incorporated with all activities making them more friendly to use . Also , it will be a huge step in making sugar available in social help (as an another project).
What will you do if you get stuck on your project and your mentor isn't around? If I get stuck on my project and my mentor is not around I will reach out to the Sugar community on IRC or the mailing list for assistance. Also , I have a very good assistance with previous gsoc applicants from sugar , I will ask for their help .
How do you propose you will be keeping the community informed of your progress and any problems or questions you might have over the course of the project? I will be writing a blog on that . Also, keeping a google-doc updated on daily basis shared with my mentors.
Miscellaneous
We want to make sure that you can set up a development environment before the summer starts. Please do one of the following: Send us a link to a screenshot of your Sugar development environment with the following modification: when you hover over the XO-person icon in the middle of Home view, the drop-down text should have your email in place of "logout". -
http://postimg.org/image/e5zhx2lgx/
Describe a great learning experience you had as a child. One time I was trying to cross river with my cousins carrying our cycles in hope to reach villages on other side . We end up flowing in the small flow and were washed 2 km off distance . That's when I got to know about the flow and strength of nature.
Is there anything else we should have asked you or anything else that we should know that might make us like you or your project more? I think that covers it all . Anyhow , I will be on irc most of the time. We will discuss about any problem there also.Thank you very much .