Title: Summer of Code/2010/Robotics For TA
URL: https://wiki.sugarlabs.org/go/Summer_of_Code/2010/Robotics_For_TA
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Contents
1
About you
2
About your project
3
You and the community
4
Miscellaneous
About you
What is your name?
Rafael Ortiz
What is your email address?
rafael@sugarlabs.org
What is your Sugar Labs wiki username?
RafaelOrtiz
What is your IRC nickname?
dirakx
What is your primary language? (We have mentors who speak multiple languages and can match you with one of them if you'd prefer.)
Spanish/English
Where are you located, and what hours do you tend to work? (We also try to match mentors by general time zone if possible.)
GMT-5 Bogota, Lima, Quito.
Have you participated in an open-source project before? If so, please send us URLs to your profile pages for those projects, or some other demonstration of the work that you have done in open-source.
If not, why
do you want to work on an open-source project this summer?
Yes I've participated in quite a few open-source projects, including sugar, olpc, debian and ubuntu.
About your project
What is the name of your project?
Robotics for Turtle Art.
Describe your project in 10-20 sentences. What are you making? Who are you making it for, and why do they need it? What technologies (programming languages, etc.) will you be using?
Turtle Art 0.84 already has the capacity to communicate lively by serial port with an Arduino (an open hardware development board). This feature most be ported to the 0.88 version, and also add the possibility to download the code generated in blocks to the Arduino board, that is the key component to a fully autonomous system.
Having an autonomous system  frees kids to work with simple vehicles, robotics and automation, without the necessity of having a cable plug to a computer.
The autonomous systems open doors to real learning explorations on areas of robotics and automation.
What is the timeline for development of your project? The Summer of Code work period is 7 weeks long, May 23 - August 10; tell us what you will be working on each week. (As the summer goes on, you and your mentor will adjust your schedule, but it's good to have a plan at the beginning so you have an idea of where you're headed.) Note that you should probably plan to have something "working and 90% done" by the midterm evaluation (July 6-13); the last steps always take longer than you think, and we will consider cancelling projects which are not mostly working by then.
First Week
Preparation time, what is the state of the art for Turtle art arduino integration
Second Week
Analysis of Turtle art 0.88, integrate previous Arduino work with this new version
Third Week
Integration of Arduino bridge to Turtle Art 0.88,
analysis of possible ways to generate downloadable code to the arduino.
Coding
Forth Week
Choose technology implementation for execution code download to the Arduino
Mockups of Download code to Arduino.
Coding
Fifth Week
Is the choose of the technology fulfilling expectations
Reflexion and going forward: possible changes to code.
Coding
Sixth Week
Final coding, deliverable.
Seventh Week
Documentation.
Going forward.
Convince us, in 5-15 sentences, that you will be able to successfully complete your project in the timeline you have described. This is usually where people describe their past experiences, credentials, prior projects, schoolwork, and that sort of thing, but be creative. Link to prior work or other resources as relevant.
This project is of great interest to sugar deployment sites and is beginning to have an important part of future plans of education for  countries, including plans of meta-recycling of electronic debris.
You and the community
If your project is successfully completed, what will its impact be on the Sugar Labs community? Give 3 answers, each 1-3 paragraphs in length. The first one should be yours. The other two should be answers from members of the Sugar Labs community, at least one of whom should be a Sugar Labs GSoC mentor. Provide email contact information for non-GSoC mentors.
If successfully achieved this project would extend sugar's applicability on Schools broadening it's use for learning  in hardware development. 
Also in union with curriculum plans would encourage people to solve problems and be aware of environmental problems.
What will you do if you get stuck on your project and your mentor isn't around?
.
Never surrender, Never surrender.
How do you propose you will be keeping the community informed of your progress and any problems or questions you might have over the course of the project?
Mail lists, Wikis and IRC announcements and updates.
Miscellaneous
We want to make sure that you can set up a
development environment
before the summer starts. Please send us a link to a screenshot of your Sugar development environment with the following modification: when you hover over the XO-person icon in the middle of Home view, the drop-down text should have your email in place of "Restart." See the image on the right for an example. It's normal to need assistance with this, so please visit our IRC channel, #sugar on irc.freenode.net, and ask for help.
What is your t-shirt size? (Yes, we know Google asks for this already; humor us.)
L
.
Describe a great learning experience you had as a child.
Is there anything else we should have asked you or anything else that we should know that might make us like you or your project more?