Title: Summer of Code/2015/webconfusion Roshan
URL: https://wiki.sugarlabs.org/go/Summer_of_Code/2015/webconfusion_Roshan
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Contents
1
About You
2
About your project
3
You and the community
4
Miscellaneous
About You
What is your name?
Roshan Bagla
What is your email address?
roshan.wagle789@gmail.com
What is your Sugar Labs wiki username?
Roshan Bagla
What is your IRC nickname on irc.freenode.net?
Money
What is your first language? (We have mentors who speak multiple languages and can match you with one of them if you'd prefer.)
My first language is Hindi but with equally fine with English too.
Where are you located, and what hours (UTC) do you tend to work? (We also try to match mentors by general time zone if possible.)
Currently located in India (Ludhiana city, Punjab).
My Time-Zone is UTC/GMT +5:30.
I usually prefer working 6 am to 8 am and 6 pm to 12 am daily.
Have you participated in an open-source project before? If so, please send us URLs to your profile pages for those projects, or some other demonstration of the work that you have done in open-source. If not, why do you want to work on an open-source project this summer?
I’m completely new to open-source projects and am really interested in working for an organization, mainly to learn new things apart from gaining work experience that will help me enhance my existing knowledge and also improve my understanding of it. I have practiced HTML and CSS from some renowned websites like CODECADEMY and TREEHOUSE. So I’m highly passionate and curious to put my concepts to test by working on this project. I like facing new challenges and I think giving this project a try will be highly beneficial to me and my future.
About your project
What is the name of your project?
Web Confusion
Describe your project in 10-20 sentences. What are you making? Who are you making it for, and why do they need it? What technologies (programming languages, etc.) will you be using?
The primary goal of the project is to tutor young children, specifically those in upper primary schools, on how to create webpages by engrossing them in an interactive way of webpage designing. By making use of cartoon images and quizzes, we will ensure a friendly environment along with ensuring proper revision and retaining of the learned lessons at the same time. Also, we will make use of animation. For e.g. using an animation of a famous cartoon character to explain some tedious lessons in an hilarious manner, or by allocating reward points for every stage completion to keep the children involved and feel motivated. We all know how much children venerate cartoons. Besides, it will also provoke more interest of the children.
Children will be introduced to HTML and CSS in a highly efficient way as it makes use of an XO laptop, which is connected to a school server to avoid the need for a working Internet connection. It also makes it readily accessible to children in remote areas of the world, where Internet is not even dreamed about, let alone establishing it.
The project is basically a framework consisting of different tutorial levels, each level focused on teaching a new concept of HTML and CSS. This is done to ensure a step wise learning towards the final goal. The levels become more difficult with each progressing level. Here is a brief description of the levels:-
Level 1
will be focused on familiarizing the children with the basics of HTML like headings, paragraphs and various tags and creating web pages.
Level 2
will further elaborate the basics learned in Level 1 i.e. adding lists, changing of fonts etc.
Level 3
will further enhance the skills learned in previous two levels entering tables, spans, divs and adding images.
Level 4
will begin with CSS.
Level 5
will teach more about HTML Media uploading videos, plug-ins, audio, Youtube.
Level 6
after having a complete basic knowledge now they will move to HTML5 and CSS3.
When children get stuck with the quizzes, the hints option will ensure that they don’t get disappointed for not being able to arrive at the right solution of a question. There will be a creative test and various indulging projects at the end of the course, completing which children will enjoy and gain massive confidence boost. Feature of tracking the current progress record of each child will be provided.
The languages used for the project are HTML and CSS, which are also compatible with XO laptops. Small Feedback forms will added just to insure that children are liking the project or not.
What is the timeline for development of your project? The Summer of Code work period is from May 19 - August 22; tell us what you will be working on each week. (As the summer goes on, you and your mentor will adjust your
schedule, but it's good to have a plan at the beginning so you have an idea of where you're headed.) Note that you should probably plan to have something "working and 90% done" by the midterm evaluation (27 June); the last
steps always take longer than you think, and we will consider cancelling projects which are not mostly working by then.
I will be having my final exam in the last two weeks of May. So I will be very busy but will be able to easily manage my time.
Time Period
Task
Before 20th May
Referring to different sites, to get knowledge and interesting features that can be added to webpages so that the interface would be very attractive for the children.
25th May-1th June
To finalize the feature with my mentor and getting feedback from him and change the requirements if needed.
2nd June-8th June
Start working on the interface and will complete the first level. I will start immediately after getting the feedback.
9th June-15th June
Will take on continuous improvement side by side (if needed) along with the level 2.
16th June-23rd June
Level 3 will be completed, and
quizzes
and
assignments
will be inserted according to the levels.
24rd June-26th June
The webpages made so far will be reviewed for missing features, and required improvements will be made.
27th June
Code will be submitted for
mid tem evaluation
.
28th June- 5th July
Fixing important bugs and finishing Level 4
6th July-14th July
Level 5 will be accomplished. Addition of new features to help children understand with ease.
15th July-18th July
Break Time. Relaxing is equally important.
19th July -25th July
Working on assignments, and providing hints to them, would make them more efficient for the students who are still at beginner phase.
26th July-5th August
Focusing on inculcation of features related to HTML5 and CSS3(i.e Level 6) to my current webpages that enhance the knowledge of children.
6th August-14th August
One final testing of the project to ensure that all requirements are met accordingly to the children’s level and also of the organization.
15th August-28th August
Testing, improving and bug fixing period and getting feedback +
Final Code Submission.
Convince us, in 5-15 sentences, that you will be able to successfully complete your project in the timeline you have described. This is usually where people describe their past experiences, credentials, prior projects, schoolwork
and that sort of thing, but be creative. Link to prior work or other resources as relevant.
I’m a dedicated and disciplined student and don’t demand much motivation from others. I usually spend my free time gaining more knowledge, and hence improving myself. I often prefer visiting top MOOC websites, for example coursera.com, edx.org, codecademy, udacity, udemy.com etc, to learn new languages
1) I have learned HTML and CSS from Codecademy. I’ve always been very enthusiastic trying out new things, and taking on complex problems to see where I stand. I’ve always tried to do something unique, even if in college projects. Like in my HTML project last semester, I created a website for a Spanish Restaurant and also gave a good creative touch by embellishing it with mouth watering images and eye captivating text.
2) I have also built an optimized search engine in python from udacity.com. I worked on web crawler, which is used to extract various links of websites and store them in a database for faster and much efficient retrieval. Indexing has also been worked upon. I used Redis Database, for storing all the links that are extracted using the web crawler it wasn’t a subject taught in my university curriculum.
Also, I gained
certification of completion in Redis Database
from udemy. Here is the verification link for my certificate.
https://www.udemy.com/certificate/UC-WGA2TJUI/
3) In My free time I usually Prefer to study topics of my interest online, so last year I completed certificate of completion “Intro to Java Programming”. Here is the proof of my efforts.
https://www.udemy.com/certificate/UC-ZX7TJW27/
4) I am currently taking on bootstrap from edx.com, this course is Organized by the developers of Microsoft so learning from these kind of developer would be a great 
Opportunity for me.
5) I also learnt python from coursera.com “Programming For Everybody”, and  that was also a great experience for me,i got to to learn this language from the professor of University of Michigan and i m 
looking forward for  learning more courses like this.
Apart from this, I always tell myself I don’t know everything there is to know, and that keeps me inspired to know more and more till I’ve fed my curiosity. And the hunger of curiosity, we all know, seldom sates.
In Summers I don’t have much to do so this project will my top priority. I will easily invest around 42-45hours/week.
You and the community
If your project is successfully completed, what will its impact be on the Sugar Labs community? Give 3 answers, each 1-3 paragraphs in length. The first one should be yours. The other two should be answers from members of the Sugar Labs community, at least one of whom should be a Sugar Labs GSoC mentor. Provide email contact information for non-GSoC mentors.
This project will have a huge impact on the children as you will build and enhance their knowledge, which was earlier not possible due to absence of proper Internet facilities. This project would be a great opportunity for students to learn HTML and CSS. For sugar labs I think it would be a profound success because through it, not only we can educate the children of remote areas but also give them a feeling of satisfaction that they are building a brighter future for the children.
Tony Anderson (Mentor) :
Walter Bender :
What will you do if you get stuck on your project and your mentor isn't around ?
Well that won’t be a problem for me as I’m a cool minded guy and don’t panic very easily. I’ll try to first analyze the problem as properly as I can and then seek a solution from the Internet. I will also try to discuss my problem with other students at the IRC channel, which is most likely to give me a better idea of the solution, if not the complete solution. I will also approach the seniors and teachers of my university, whose experienced is bound to come helpful. Along with that, if required, I would also reach out to stackoverflow and Quora.com, where I can describe my problem and expect a successful reply (solution) within a matter of hours or a couple days at max.
How do you propose you will be keeping the community informed of your progress and any problems or questions you might have over the course of the project?
I will be informing about my progress, problems or questions via IRC channel and Mailing List, and will continuously remain in touch with my mentor and keep him posted regarding the project.
Miscellaneous
We want to make sure that you can set up a development environment before the summer starts. Please do one of the following
:
Send us a link to a screenshot of your Sugar development environment with the following modification
:
when you hover over the XO-person icon in the middle of Home view, the drop-down text should have your email in place of "logout".Send us a link to a pull request or merge request you have made on a Sugar or Sugar activity bug
.
It's normal to need assistance with this, so please visit our IRC channel, #sugar on irc.freenode.net, and ask for help
.
Describe a great learning experience you had as a child.
For me, one of my greatest learning experiences was back in school, where I inculcated  myself into a strict discipline and punctuality. I also kept myself indulged in many sports activities during my school time, that taught me countless valuable lessons. It also made me develop a habit of dreaming big, never quitting, and trying to fulfill the dream that has been kept locked away in a corner of our mind. It helps me remain focused in life or on things that I do. I’ve learned that success is a journey, and hence should be enjoyed and not feared. So Google Summer of Code will be worth trying, for both the sake of my enthusiasm, my dreams and my habit of trying out something new always.
Is there anything else we should have asked you or anything else that we should know that might make us like you or your project more?
I could have added the screen shot of my project but unfortunately I couldn’t because I was engrossed with my exams. Don’t think of me telling you this as a means of gaining a spot in your good books. I’m just letting you know my problem. I had limited time, and so could come with only a limited work with all my efforts.