Title: Talk:VirtualBox
URL: https://wiki.sugarlabs.org/go/Talk:VirtualBox
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Contents
1
Please maintain these pages
2
Install on a USB device
3
Virtualbox 3.2.1 on 16GB Toshiba USB Running Ubuntu 9.10 Karmic
4
Sugar not booting
5
I want to give a response to the "Setup a Virtual Machine for Sugar on a Stick" (Mac Os)
Please maintain these pages
To those entering alternate installations and experimental images: please try to organize and integrate the page for the new reader.
Sort the information for readers from beginner to advanced.
Delete information that is out of date or, if it is significant, link to it on an historical page.
If you have entered information, please don't abandon it to the confusion of others. Please use your experience to organize and maintain the information so others can rapidly reach a higher level of understanding of the subject matter.
Updated this page feb 03 2013 - satellit
Install on a USB device
(2-GB or larger USB storage device needed to run VirtualBox Images)
One could modify the instructions at
VMware#One_8-GiB_stick_with_2_partitions
Download VirtualBox OSE program, and install instead of VMPlayer.
Boot PC from stick, and run images on same or 2nd stick.
Virtualbox 3.2.1 on 16GB Toshiba USB Running Ubuntu 9.10 Karmic
This is a nice portable solution for a full Gnome Desktop and Sun Virtualbox 3.2.1
(works with Hp Pavillion "Vista"Notebook)
I use it to create .vdi Hard Disk images for soas-v2-Blueberry
install Ubuntu 9.10
[1]
from CD to 16GB Toshiba USB  (It will run on 8GB USB but very little room left for images)
setup wireless networking
Download VirtualBox:
[2]
Install Virtualbox
Have Fun!
satellit 12/19/2009
Sugar not booting
I got Sugar to boot under VirtualBox 2.X / MacOS 10.5 following the recommended procedure. With VirtualBox 3.X something seems to be broken. Neither my old VDI nor a newly downloaded one will proceed to more than that black screen. Sad!
But don't despair: You need to get the installation ISO (380 MB) from the downloads page (
Sugar on a Stick/Downloads
). Add this as the CD-ROM to your virtual machine and set the first boot volume to this CD-ROM. Now Sugar works as before!
I want to give a response to the "Setup a Virtual Machine for Sugar on a Stick" (Mac Os)
I´ve installed the VirtualBox from step 1 - 6 and then i setup a virtual machine.
I´ve watched the streamcast about that and i´ve done everything similar to the cast.
The Virtual Box starts, he wants to boot and then there´s a black window for hours ....
Does somebody have an idea what i´ve done wrong or what´s the problem about booting?
Greetings
thor.sten