Title: Talk:Design Team/Logo Ideas
URL: https://wiki.sugarlabs.org/go/Talk:Design_Team/Logo_Ideas#Sugar_CRM
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
We shouldn't change the Sugar icon. It is the central metaphor for the child on the XO and it works well w/ the other icons in the mesh view. I have changed the main XO icon on my XO to the OLE Nepal logo and then changed it back because it made the mesh view absolutely confusing.
BryanWB
04:29, 10 May 2008 (UTC)
Right.  I think that, regardless of what we chose as a logo for Sugar as an OS, it's critical to retain the XO representation for the people within the UI, at least by default. -
Eben
Eben: I like your logo idea. It's simple and neutral and plays well with the sugar look and feel. I think that we could go with blue for the main color. A weakness of that design could be that it looks like s ugar, as if "ugar" was a word in itself. Can you also make a version with the words "sugar labs" in it? --
Simon
13:11, 13 May 2008 (UTC)
Yeah, I feel like playing into the simple stroke/fill visual style is a good way to go, since that in itself is part of Sugar's identity.  I agree with your comment regarding the kerning between the 's' and the 'ugar', but played with a number of possibilities and didn't find any I liked better.  Feel free to glance at my
sketches
for insight into my process, and potentially food for further discussion.  I feel that the "sugar cube" logo needs the 's' when it's used alone, but perhaps we could pull the 's' out of the cube for the logotype version.  Also, I was aiming to find an identity of Sugar itself; do we need a "Sugar Labs" logo independent of that?  Could we license the Sugar logo under CC and simply use a logotype with "labs" appended, perhaps in a lighter gray? -
Eben
"Labs" could just be a little word beneath "sugar". As for the kerning problem, I don't know yet how to best solve that. Do you mind putting the source file (SVG?, AI?, EPS?) online, so I can play with it a bit? --
Simon
18:34, 13 May 2008 (UTC)
Just a thought: Why not use just the symbol with the s in it and typeset ”Sugar“ and/or „Sugar Labs“ additional - like f.e. the Superman-logo, it contains only an S, without uperman afterwards ... --
Helga
19:34, 13 May 2008 (UTC)
I like it too (as well the colour blue as new maincolour) ... --
Helga
13:27, 13 May 2008 (UTC)
I don't get it. What does the cube represent? And, alas, I don't think the kerning works in any of the sketchs. Can I be so bold as to suggest something along the lines of the word Sugar Labs in an outline font using the line weights from the Sugar icon design rules?  perhaps each letter in its own color dyad taken from the Sugar palette? --
Walter
The cube is a "sugar cube".  At least, that's the logical association intended, while attempting to retain a simple form in the Sugar icon style.  I think that rendering the complete text in that style will feel quite heavy -- perhaps only the first letter?  I also retain the goal of coming up with an icon
for Sugar
, and not specifically for Sugar Labs (Though a modification to the icon could certainly serve that purpose).  The fact that Sugar lacks an identity seemed to be the reason this process was initiated.  Finally, I think it's important, regardless of what we choose, that there is an iconic form that we can use to represent sugar without associating the word "Sugar" with it.  Think of an apple with a bite, a flying window, or a penguin.  These logos all stand alone, and I think we need something equally succinct. Regarding kerning, by the way, I do offer that it might be worth pulling the 'S' out of cube in the logotype, which eliminates the kerning issues, as seen in a few of the sketches. -
Eben
I think the distinguishing feature of Sugar is collaboration. So something that suggests multiple elements working together is in part what I had in mind with the multiple letters rendered a la a Sugar icon. I don't think a Sugar cube means a whole lot. Maybe cubes in the form of a Soma puzzle might be more apropos? --
Walter
The Soma puzzle is an excellent idea, kind of like a child's blocks done in a more structured way.  A rubrics cube would be another iconic form that could be adopted, but it's probably a little too complex visually. --
Ralph
Thought of trying something
different
. Tell me what you think. --
Petriceanu
I really like the direction that Murray Altheim's idea is heading... --
Walter
01:36, 26 May 2008 (UTC)
Sugar CRM
I've always thought the Sugar was an unfortunate collision in open-source namespace with the
Sugar CRM
, but there is not much you can do about that now.  However, you should be careful to avoid mark confusion.  Sugar CRM does have
trademarks
that they can rightfully defend, including the word mark "Sugar" -- when used in the context of a Sales, Marketing or Customer Service business software application and
this registered mark
(specific to the font, etc.) on a stylized "Sugar Labs" logo as well as
this registered mark
with a cube.  I'm not saying anything currently proposed necessarily interferes with their marks (I'm not a copyright lawyer), but you should be aware of their marks so as to avoid confusion, and you don't want to mess with nice guys who make a good CRM and give it away anyway.
Cjl
22:30, 13 May 2008 (UTC)
Crowded namespace
sugar-lab.com
According to their web-site
sugarlab corporation
is a progressive entertainment studio that embraces both traditional entertainment and emerging media developments, including open content creation models.  I don't know who Lisa Voldeng is, but I wouldn't want to mess with any of their "uberbabe superhero pantheon".
sugarlab.com
You've also got a dead page for a
digital media studio
, but probably not the same one from the whois info.
sugarlabs.com
is being squatted on by a domain troll.
sugar-lab.net and sugarlab.net
gives you
someone's blog
, I think, and I can't tell what
this is
.
Potential prior art for "Simplified" logo
http://www.shareaholic.com/