Title: Taxonomy
URL: https://wiki.sugarlabs.org/go/Taxonomy#Sweet:_The_abstract_design_of_the_experience
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
english
|
español
HowTo
[ID# 100332]
+/-
Contents
1
The SUGAR stack:
2
Stack Components
2.1
Starch(es): A complete disk image for Sugar
2.2
Honey: activities developed by 'in the wild' vendors
2.3
Sucrose: The interface, plus a set of demonstration activities
2.4
Glucose: The base Sugar environment
2.5
Fructose: The set of demonstration activities
2.6
Ribose: The operating system components developed for Sugar
3
Related concepts
3.1
Sweet: The abstract design of the experience
3.2
Galactose: a future Sugar base designed for alternate computing forms
4
Humour / One-liners
5
Glossary
The SUGAR stack:
Note: See discussion for details about the OS/Ribose stacking
Current implementations of Sugar elements can be found at
Supported systems
Stack Components
Starch(es): A complete disk image for Sugar
(starch is composed of multiple sugars bonded together)
Description: We often distribute complete disk images for Sugar, ready to
boot.  These images are composed of multiple elements of the above stack.
Each image series should be named separately, to minimize confusion.  For cutesy codenames, we could have a development build ("glycogen", a starch used to produce Glucose) and a stable build ("cellulose", an extremely stable starch).
In July 2010, Paraguay Educa chose the name
Dextrose
(approximately acronymized from "DEployments' Xo OS") for their release of Sugar 0.88 on Fedora 11 for XO laptops (
announcement
). The molecule
Dextrose
is the dextrorotatory form of glucose or D-glucose, the sugar in blood and other living systems. So, it represents a vital infusion for the project.
Honey: activities developed by 'in the wild' vendors
a sweet fluid made by bees, mostly Fructose
Description:  Activities that are packaged by outside developers, sometimes ports of activities to Sugar from other OS.  It might enhance Sugar and the Sweet experience, but "honey frequently contains dormant endospores of the bacterium Clostridium botulinum, which can be dangerous to infants"
Wikipedia
.
~ For example, Skype, printer capability, IM software
as a former beekeeper I can tell you that not all honey is organic, though we all wish it were so (antibiotics taint a lot of it, especially in developing countries)
Yamaplos
15:04, 17 May 2008 (UTC)
Sucrose: The interface, plus a set of demonstration activities
("table sugar", the kind you buy in the store.  It consists of glucose and fructose, combined)
Description: Sucrose consists of both Glucose and Fructose.  It therefore
represents a complete example Sugar environment, ready to be installed
through a package manager.  The purpose of Sucrose is so that prospective
deployers can install the "sugar-sucrose" package, and immediately say
"Wow! Look at all the cool capabilities that this system has!".
Glucose: The base Sugar environment
(the fundamental, simple sugar used by all life forms)
Description: Glucose is the minimal system that must be added to a
standard GNU/Linux distribution in order to enable Activities to run.  This
includes all the python code and graphics files that implement the shell,
as well as the Journal.  Glucose's dependencies may include xorg-server,
xulrunner, squeakvm, rainbow, etc.  Some of these dependencies may be
marked optional by distributions.  Glucose does not include any Activities
except those like the Journal that are non-optional.
Fructose: The set of demonstration activities
(the main sugar in fruit, which is how we're supposed to get our sugar)
Description: The Sugar developers will need  some example set of
activities with which to demonstrate Sugar.  This set is Fructose.  The
packages in Fructose should be selected to make the resulting environment
as impressive as possible for a potential client or user.  Packages should
therefore be stable, polished, and exercise the widest possible range of
features.  Fructose may also serve as an example for people constructing
their own Activity sets.
See
Development_Team/Release/Modules#Fructose
.
Ribose: The operating system components developed for Sugar
(the sugar used by all life forms to control their hardware, in the form of RNA.  It's important, but not sweet)
Description: Ribose is the set of hardware-centric software components
that have been developed throughout this project.  It includes the XO
kernels, OHM, any init-script customizations, etc.  Ribose should be
construed as including all components necessary to boot the system, enough
to install Glucose if it has not yet been installed.
Related concepts
Sweet: The abstract design of the experience
(the taste of sugar)
Description: "Sweet" is the abstract design of the interface's appearance
and behavior, independent of any code actually implementing this design, and by extension—the learner experience.
The mockups at
Design Team/Designs
represent this
component's second major release, or perhaps 2.0-alpha.
Galactose: a future Sugar base designed for alternate computing forms
(an
epimer
of Glucose, a component of lactose, milk sugar, for the Milky Way galaxy of  computing forms searching for something sweet)
Description: A hypothetical new Sugar variation that begins to support Learner collaboration with the super nova of new computing forms, especially the
mobile operating systems
, such as,
Android
,
webOS
,
MeeGo
,
iOS
,
Phone 7
, etc.  There is trend towards ubiquitous computing that inspires Learners to great expectations. It will require us to develop clever new
aldoses
, like our XO's Ribose, to meet our children's demand for seamless collaboration without discrimination in their
Galactic Neighborhood
.
See these threads:
Fundamentals of New Computing
&
It's An Education Project (For Sugar Everywhere, ...)
Humour / One-liners
Lead acetate: An implementation of Sweet on Windows. Sweeter than sugar, but
toxic to young brains
.
aspartame
- once thought better than sugar, but possibly connected with brain tumors
Morgs
11:44, 17 May 2008 (UTC)
So you're saying Sugar is now suite?
Kevin Cole
Caramel: a "feature freeze" on Sucrose
Diabetic OS: an OS that cannot handle Sugar yet
Yama Ploskonka
Molasses: a beta, unfinished release of Sugar
High Fructose Corn Syrup: Apparently similar, but made of patented materials
Morgan Collett
How sweet it is!
Jackie Gleason
Insulin: what Microsoft needs to make Sugar go away.
davewa
Glossary
See
Glossary
.