Title: Tutorials/Copy with drag & drop
URL: https://wiki.sugarlabs.org/go/Tutorials/Copy_with_drag_%26_drop
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Contents
1
Copying to a USB drive from the Sugar Journal
2
Copying to the Sugar Journal from a USB drive
3
Safely remove a USB drive
4
Conversion
5
Copy to/from Journal Scripts
Copying to a USB drive from the Sugar Journal
How to copy from the
Sugar Journal
to a  USB drive.
Insert your USB drive, being careful not to move the USB drive that is already there,
Display the Journal, by either pressing F5 once, or pressing <alt-tab> until the Journal appears, or by clicking on the Journal icon in the
Home
view.
Tutorials
Screenshots
Introduction to the Sugar Interface
Connecting to the Internet
Chatting with the Chat Activity
Chatting with the IRC Activity
Copy with drag & drop
Send a file to a friend
Backup & restore Journal
Capturas de pantalla
Introducción a la interfaz de Azúcar
Conexión a Internet
Charlando con la Actividad Chat
Charlando con la Actividad IRC
Copia con un simple arrastrar y soltar
Installation
Install SoaS in VirtualBox
Install SoaS in VMware Player
Import a VirtualBox Appliance
Importar un aparato de VirtualBox
Install with
liveinst
Instalar con
liveinst
Install & use liveusb-creator
Netinstall Fedora with Sugar Desktop
Burn a CD.iso on a Mac
Videos
On the bottom left in the tray of the Journal is a Journal icon, and icons for other disk drives mounted or attached to the computer.
Click on the Journal icon.
Click on the entry you want to copy,
Hold down the left mouse button, move the mouse to the icon for the target USB drive, and then release the left mouse button. The copy should begin.
Click on the icon for the USB drive, the contents are listed showing the copied item.
Copying to the Sugar Journal from a USB drive
Display the Journal.
Click on the icon for the source disk drive, the contents are listed.
Click on the file you want to copy.
Hold down the left mouse button, move the mouse to the icon for the Journal, and then release the left mouse button. The copy should begin.
Click on the icon for the Journal, the contents are listed showing the copied file.
If the file was an Activity.xo file, it will be automatically installed, and will appear in the
Home
view.
Safely remove a USB drive
How to safely remove a portable USB drive.
Display the Journal,
Right-click on the USB drive icon, and click on
Remove
.
Take the USB drive out of the computer, being careful to only take out the USB drive that went through the
Remove
step.
Conversion
The drag-drop copy in Sugar converts the Journal files to ones that will work on a USB.
Or from the terminal using sugar-install-bundle.
Copy to/from Journal Scripts
OLPC:Copy to and from the Journal
Downloadable scripts to move files to/from the Journal.