Title: Ubuntu/0.90
URL: https://wiki.sugarlabs.org/go/Ubuntu/0.90
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Contents
1
Sugar 0.90 on Ubuntu
1.1
Problem: collaboration is broken
1.2
Problem: unexpected dialog
1.3
Problem: Browse activity does not work
1.4
Problem: software update does not work
1.5
Problem: very few activities
1.6
Problem: Sugar is not full screen
1.7
Problem: no screensaver or power management controls in Sugar
1.8
Installation
Sugar 0.90 on Ubuntu
There are many problems with Sugar 0.90 on Ubuntu, many of which have been fixed in a later version of Sugar.  This page is a historical reference.
(Also applies to Trisquel 5.5.)
Problem: collaboration is broken
Activity collaboration over a local area network does not work.  There is no workaround.
User's Central avatar XO disappears after several minutes (Known bug in 0.90)
Problem: unexpected dialog
A "Choose password for new keyring" dialog may appear the first time Sugar is started.
Workaround: the dialog can be cancelled.
Solution: this was fixed in
ticket #2278
.
Problem: Browse activity does not work
Browse can be installed, but does not work, because the Sugar Platform is incomplete on this version of Ubuntu; it is missing hulahop.
Workaround: use the Surf activity:
download
http://people.sugarlabs.org/Tgillard/Surf-115.xo
install the bundle in a terminal by typing:
sugar-install-bundle Surf-115.xo
Workaround: use Firefox started from Terminal.  However, Firefox is not integrated with Sugar, and does not access the journal or install activity bundles.
Problem: software update does not work
Sugar has a Software Update option in My Settings.  This does not work when the native Ubuntu packages are installed.
Workaround: none.
Problem: very few activities
Only the Pippy and TurtleArt activities are included.
Workaround: you can download more Activities from
activites.sugarlabs.org
using Surf.
Workaround: you can download more activities from Ubuntu.  Click on System, then Administration, then Synaptic Package Manager.  The packages names all start with
sugar-
and end with
-activity
.  For example
sugar-terminal-activity
.
Workaround: you can download more Activities from
activites.sugarlabs.org
from outside of Sugar and install each .xo bundle individually in a terminal with:
sugar-install-bundle activity.xo
Activities that you install in a Sugar Terminal activity are automatically made favourites and will appear in the home view.
Activities that you install in GNOME Terminal are not automatically made favourites, and so do not appear in the home view.  Use the List View to mark them as favourites.
Problem: Sugar is not full screen
Sugar on Ubuntu is run in a window.
Workaround: see
how to configure full screen
.
Problem: no screensaver or power management controls in Sugar
Sugar does not have screensaver or display power management controls compatible with Ubuntu.
Workaround: turn off screensaver and power management, using Terminal commands:
xset s off
xset -dpms
Installation
See
Ubuntu#How to install Sugar on Ubuntu
for generic instructions that should apply to all versions.
See
Ubuntu/Previous
for how to install older versions of Sugar on older versions of Ubuntu using Ubuntu Software Center.