Title: User:Bernie
URL: https://wiki.sugarlabs.org/go/User:Bernie#Oversight_Board_Platform
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Contents
1
Bernie Innocenti
1.1
Oversight Board Platform
1.1.1
Goals for Sugar Labs
1.1.2
Anti-goals for Sugar Labs
1.1.3
Personal agenda
1.2
On openness
Bernie Innocenti
not really me
e-mail: bernie AT codewiz DOT org
IRC: _bernie, hanging on #sugar on FreeNet
Jabber: bernie AT codewiz DOT org (yes, I run my own Jabber server ;-)
PGP key:
71FF4BAC
Contact info:
http://codewiz.org/wiki/ContactInformation
Personal homepage:
http://codewiz.org/
Resume:
http://codewiz.org/wiki/AbridgedResume
LinkedIn profile:
http://www.linkedin.com/in/codewiz
Previous OLPC projects:
http://codewiz.org/wiki/OneLaptopPerChild
I'm a volunteer working for the
Sugar Labs
foundation. Before that, I was a
full-time volunteer developer at OLPC. My job was hacking on X11, the base Fedora OS,
the Linux kernel, some i18n and input work. I have also worked on-site at OLPC deployments
in Nepal, Paraguay, Uruguay and Mozambique.
Oversight Board Platform
The open source method is based on participation, not consumption.
To position itself as THE educational environment of the future, Sugar needs
to grow a larger user and developer base.  This is only possible if we keep
growing as a truly community-driven project with its own independent identity.
Goals for Sugar Labs
0. Engage deployments in leading roles within Sugar Labs
1. Further enhance our public-facing web presence and development infrastructure
2. Work with multiple hardware and OS vendors to make Sugar available to
the widest-possible user base
3. Foster the creation of companies and groups offering professional Sugar
consulting and outsourcing
4. Continue to enroll volunteer community members in key roles of our
infrastructure and public relations
5. Raise funding to sponsor developer meetings and our presence at major
international events
Anti-goals for Sugar Labs
-1. Hire a large team of software developers – this would end up discouraging
outside contributors
-2. Brew a custom OS platform – we work with distributors, we don't compete against
them
-3. Let Sugar Labs become unfairly biased towards specific partners –
that would undermine our relationships with other partners
-4. Trade project autonomy for funding or support – we're glad to offer our
services, not our souls
Personal agenda
Within a few years computers will become central in primary education world-wide.
This will stimulate the creation of a new industry of hardware, software, and
content for schools. Sugar is currently well positioned: it has greater momentum
and several competitive advantages over any proprietary platform on the horizon.
I work with deployments and commercial entities interested in Sugar development.
To build local capacity, I'm coordinating small teams of Sugar hackers focused on
service and support. Internet is our office. In the future, I'd like to work
with hardware vendors with the goal of making Sugar available across all educational
platforms.
On openness
Openness will be our greatest and most lasting strength.  If we shy away
from it now it will never return.
 --
Samuel Klein