Title: User:SeanDaly
URL: https://wiki.sugarlabs.org/go/User:SeanDaly
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Sean Daly (sdaly at sugarlabs.org) is
Marketing Team
Coordinator and welcomes ideas and comments.
My Flickr photostream about Sugar can be found
here
.
I am running for the Sugar Labs Oversight Board, with the following platform:
Make Sugar very widely known amongst teachers. I believe that teacher buy-in is vital to the success of Sugar. Geeky teachers will likely be the initial group to get started with Sugar, but I believe Sugar Labs needs to be considered a serious alternative to any ICT in K-8 education plan. This is only possible if Sugar becomes well-known.
Formalize our fundraising activities. I feel Sugar Labs can inevitably obtain major funding (>$1 million USD) if a plan involving canvassing, presentations and followup can be organized. Although this will likely require new volunteers, I am confident they can be found; I intend to grow the marketing team to dozens of active members.
Build an ecosystem for local systems providers to schools. Although geeky teachers will be able to evaluate Sugar, a deployment of any size will require support. If local for-hire IT support can rapidly obtain all the elements necessary to deploy Sugar, schools will take the risk and the rate of failed projects will be kept to a minimum.
Support OLPC. Although Sugar has more universal ambitions than OLPC, we must not forget our Learners using Sugar today, some of whom will become the Sugar contributors of tomorrow.
Establish consistent feedback, both from OLPC and Sugar-only deployments. Feedback is absolutely vital to providing the best learning experience through Sugar.
Evaluate partnerships carefully. As we grow, we will face key decisions involving potential partners. Some of these decisions may be divisive to the community. As an Oversight Board member, I will try to choose what is best for the long-term growth and viability of Sugar.