Title: User talk:Walter
URL: https://wiki.sugarlabs.org/go/User_talk:Walter
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
First to type on your user:talk page, what an honor.  When it all seems like too much, as I'm sure it must, I've left something
here
that I hope you might find amusing.
Cjl
20:56, 15 May 2008 (UTC)
Contents
1
Thought on translations
2
Current events date convention
3
transactions discussion
4
Cambodia
Thought on translations
Before you spend a lot of time on translations via the translations template, consider the potential of the
GoogleTrans-xx
templates I'm starting to develop/deploy on OLPC wiki.  Note, it will require the same plugin/extension magic-dust currently installed on the OLPC wiki to be sprinkled here before they will work.
GoogleTrans-en
for starting from English page
(example)
.  Click on Spanish and continue browsing rest of wiki in espanol inside Google frame.
GoogleTrans-es
for starting from Spanish page
(example)
.  Click English and see that page and any linked lang-es page in English.
20-odd other variations possible
The idea is that you want to lower language barrier, but you don't want your most valuable trilingual (1 lang-en, 2 lang-xx, 3 wiki/Python/C/Linux/Sugar/etc.) assets spending a lot of time on keeping up with rapidly evolving edits.  By the time a page becomes stable, it's probably too late to get meaningful input from a mono or bi-lingual non-lang-en audience (like teachers, local coders, etc.).
For wiki pages, I think that any translation
now
is better than a great translation
later
.  Allows you to lower language barrier immediately (in a usually good enough manner) and reserve human translation effort for Pootle and tech-phrasing sensitive pages. Try the provided links to OLPC wiki and let me know what you think.
Cjl
19:39, 20 May 2008 (UTC)
I was playing with it on the OLPC site earlier today. I agree, it is a decent compromise that is resource-efficient. --
Walter
21:23, 20 May 2008 (UTC)
Current events date convention
Walter,  I'm not sure I get the link-naming convention you are using on
Archive/Current Events
.  The text there that says "2008-06-16" links to
SugarLabs:Current_events/Archive/2006-06-24
.  Is one start of week and the other end of week?  You and I have reverted each other on this (maybe even twice), and that just seems like a silly misunderstanding to have. In the spirit of
WP:BRD
, I may just be missing the convention you are using and I'd like to I understand it.
Cjl
18:14, 24 June 2008 (UTC)
I need to move all the pages to the correct date. I accidentally started naming them based on the date I moved them into the archive instead of the date I created them. --
Walter
21:31, 24 June 2008 (UTC)
I was assuming the date of publication on IAEP was the operative date and I had crossed-checked against the archives there to do the last rename/relinking I did yesterday, which you reverted today.  No point in operating at cross-purposes, so much to do to move forward without tripping over each other.
Cjl
21:36, 24 June 2008 (UTC)
I must be tired (I was up all night flying over the Atlantic and in meetings all day today--hence the late posting). I thought I was exposing the publication dates in IAEP even though the pages in the wiki. I defer to you. --
Walter
21:41, 24 June 2008 (UTC)
I'll take another pass at it, carefully checking against the IAEP archive pages again.  I do much of my wiki editing from 22:00 - 03:00 local time, so I'm just as susceptible to error as the next guy :-)
Cjl
21:49, 24 June 2008 (UTC)
transactions discussion
Moved to
Sugar_Labs/Governance/Transactions
Cambodia
Hi Walter, I'm a former OLPC-EU employee in Brussels, preparing a trip to visit my wife's family in Cambodia and to meet the Minister of Education of Cambodia.  Saw you on
http://wiki.laptop.org/index.php?title=OLPC_Cambodia&action=history
... do you have any special interest to Cambodia in particular? Can you team-up / coach me? Thx
My recommendation is to contact Elaine Negroponte, who was there from the beginning and is still carrying on. Also, there is a chapter on Cambodia in my book,
Learning to Change the World
.