Title: User:Taylor2412/GameIdea
URL: https://wiki.sugarlabs.org/go/User:Taylor2412/GameIdea
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
UPDATE
Due to class (RIT OLPC Seminar) specification I needed a teammate to continue on with this idea and was unable to get one because, understandably, many people wanted to contribute to previously existing ideas.  Therefore as of now I am working on the
PacMath
project which I think is a cool idea and really hope we are able to get at least our basic idea done.  As for my idea I'd like to complete it at some point and I am hoping that my experience to come with PacMath will improve my very minimal knowledge of Python.
My Game Idea
My Math4 related program is actually a game based on a snow ball fight.  I have NOT set in stone whether it will be something where you have complete freedom of movement or whether you can only move from one spot to another.  The way the second option (moving from one spot to another) would work is you have the choice of going Back, Forward, Left, or Right (the arrow keys, possible WASD) and once you select one you are shown running to another spot where you can hide behind something and have cover from others (PC) trying to hit you with a snow ball.  The Math that will be involved is the Pythagorean Theorem (Geometry) to determine how far you are from an NPC you may be trying to hit with a snow ball (would be an overhead view); you need to know this because you can only throw a certain distance which is also not set in stone.  Additionally the player will need to understand percentages, decimals and factions and an example of this is they may be given a stat: "You have a 50% chance of hitting that player from here."  Then they may be given the chance to convert that to a fraction (50% = 0.5 = 1/2) and if they are correct then their chances of hitting the NPC go up, but they need to make sure they are close enough (Pythagorean Theorem) or they will not throw it far enough.  Once they decide to throw there will be a side view showing yourself and the NPC and you will select the percentage of your total power and the angle at which you would like to throw.  There's a lot of room for more math related concepts and possible different modes within this game, but that is my basic idea.
Screen Shots
Soon to come