Title: Wish list
URL: https://wiki.sugarlabs.org/go/Wish_list
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
This is a page composed of selected
wish list pages
on the Sugar Labs wiki.
Visit
Category:Wish list
for the known lists.
Please click a section heading below to visit a featured wish list, and then add your wish.
Contents
1
Teacher feedback
1.1
Spreadsheet Activity
1.2
Activity for presentations
1.3
Options for making a screenshot, screenshot more accessible
1.4
Concept maps
1.5
Add full name of user
1.6
Timeline Activity
1.7
Sequence Activity
1.8
Offline reading in Browse
2
Sugar wish list
2.1
Sugar Platform
2.2
sugar-emulator
2.3
Create a Sugar installation script that users can find with the default GNOME software installer
3
Activity Library wish list
3.1
Activity Collection comments
3.2
Nicknaming it SAL instead of ASLO
3.3
Improvements in L10n annotation
4
Features/GTK3/API wish list
5
Summary
6
Owner
7
Ideas
7.1
Toolbar items factory methods
7.2
Code to enable/disable power management
7.3
Code to recognize XO-1, XO-1.5, XO-1.75 and other hardware
8
School Server Wish List
9
Translation Proposal
10
See also
Teacher feedback
These are items that have been collected from the field by talking with teachers and what they miss using Sugar. Ideally they should be turned later into real
Category:Feature
pages later.
Spreadsheet Activity
Often Open Office (for kids) is installed to use Calc (spreadsheet) because the SocialCalc activity is not working reliably enough. Also, teachers would like to have an activity to do simple cake and bars graphics (they used SocialCalc for these tasks so far).
Discussion
about Open Office 4 kids and 'sugarization'.
Activity for presentations
Often Open Office (for kids) is installed to use Impress (presentations) because the SocialCalc activity is not working reliably enough.
Options for making a screenshot, screenshot more accessible
Many times they do a screenshot and open it in Paint to remove the toolbar. It would be nice to have options when making a screenshot like: only capture the active window, select an area to make a screenshot from. As well it would be nice to have the screenshot functionality and the options available in the UI. Has been turned into a
Feature
already.
Concept maps
Teachers would like to have an activity or enhance the labyrinth activity for doing Concept Maps, at the moment they use cmaptools in GNOME, paths forward have been discussed at
this thread
.
Add full name of user
The teachers asked if it is possible to add a field for the real name of the child and another one for the nickname, because it is difficult to identify them for collaboration.
Timeline Activity
To teach history an activity that let's you do timelines has been requested often.
Sequence Activity
It would be nice to create a video with a sequence of photos like with
MovieMaker
or
kdenlive
.
Offline reading in Browse
They propose to add an option to Browse to save a PDF file to enable offline reading.
Sugar wish list
Use this page to request new features or enhancements to Sugar.
See also
Request New Features
.
Sugar Platform
satellit 02/18/2011
always start sugar at Name_____ screen (not as many distros that start at Color____(for avitar).
change avitar (CP/about me) name to match that logged in by user when first setting up sugar.
Change IRC Name to match above and select the appropriate #channel for the distribution. This should be stored permanently until (CP/about me) is changed.
sugar-emulator
satellit 03/15/2011
install sugar-emulator with command "sugar-emulator -f" as default
This would allow sugar emulator to match screen size of hardware it is running on and always be full screen
alternately provide a modal button on top frame of emulator window to switch to full screen and back at will.
until then we keep mentioning it, e.g.
how to configure full screen
.
Create a Sugar installation script that users can find with the default GNOME software installer
>"Fedora 20's default GNOME3 graphical software installer tool fails to find Sugar, reportedly as Sugar is not considered to be an 'application'."
This is a significant problem.  Sugar will be more successful if Linux users can easily find it by a simple keyword search in the default installer.  A user should not have to install a new installation app (yumex) in order to find Sugar.  I suggest that the team create an "application" that (i) meets Fedora's criteria for applications and (ii) automatically executes a script that downloads and installs the necessary components of Sugar.  Better yet, the Sugar Learning Platform Package App could even give a user a set of choices of available components and/or activity packages to add to the script.
Activity Library wish list
Enter here features or enhancements you would like in the
Sugar Activity Library
.
To track implementation progress, go to
developers' corner
.
Activity Collection comments
Just like Activity comments
Nicknaming it SAL instead of ASLO
And personify SAL, the
librarian
, as a new century librarian of Sugar Activities.
This would be friendlier to children and teachers, and further distinguish our library from the Mozilla origins.
What about naming it simply:
Library
,
Sugar Library
, i.e., without any acronyms at all.
alsroot
21:55, 18 February 2011 (EST)
There are befriending and marketing advantages to a nice nickname. Developers will use shorthand regardless, and sal is shorter and easier to pronounce than aslo. As children advance to developers, they will recognize their friend's name in use by the adults and maybe feel like, wow!, I would like to do that too.  There are lots of Salvadors, Sallys, Salvatores, Saleems, etc. who would take note. And we could even spins some legends about the serious activity leader who appropriated the software to build our library, and the Siberian A L who is keeping it working, and the South American and Aotearoan librarians who are working on curation. --
FGrose
21:01, 20 February 2011 (EST)
Improvements in L10n annotation
It would be good to know if an activity has been internationalized and set up for localization, whether is is hosted in the Sugar Labs Pootle instance or elsewhere.
Cjl
17:22, 21 February 2011 (EST)
Features/GTK3/API wish list
Summary
There are a lot of code copy/pasted in the activities, and we can provide a easier API to new/occasional developers.
Would be good use the change to GTK3 to improve our small sugar-toolkit/sugar APIs
This pages is right now, to discuss ideas, and collect useful information.
Owner
The Activity Team
Ideas
Toolbar items factory methods
Walter use in his activities factory methods to create buttons, separators, entry, etc.
This remove a lot of duplicated code.
Example:
def _label_factory(label, toolbar):
Factory for adding a label to a toolbar
my_label = gtk.Label(label)
   my_label.set_line_wrap(True)
   my_label.show()
   _toolitem = gtk.ToolItem()
   _toolitem.add(my_label)
   toolbar.insert(_toolitem, -1)
   _toolitem.show()
   return my_label
def _entry_factory(length, toolbar, callback):
Factory for adding a text enrty to a toolbar
my_entry = gtk.Entry()
   my_entry.set_max_length(length)
   my_entry.set_width_chars(length)
   my_entry.connect('changed', callback)
   my_entry.show()
   _toolitem = gtk.ToolItem()
   _toolitem.add(my_entry)
   toolbar.insert(_toolitem, -1)
   _toolitem.show()
   return my_entry
We can add methods like create_button, create_label and create_entry to the toolbar
Code to enable/disable power management
Many activities have code to deal with pm.
Code to recognize XO-1, XO-1.5, XO-1.75 and other hardware
A few activities repeat code to recognize hardware.
More problems ahead
http://dev.laptop.org/ticket/11116
School Server Wish List
Translation Proposal
See also
Request New Features