How Can I Help?
Table Of Contents

Prepare
Coding/Documentation/Quality Assurance
Design
Marketing/Outreach
Important Links
I'm Stuck!

 Prepare
Before contributing to Sugar Labs, you should use Music Blocks, Sugarizer or Sugar Desktop.
Music Blocks


Your Equipment
Your Operating System
Recommendations


You have a computer
Linux, Windows or macOS
Clone the Music Blocks git repository.


You have just a browser
Any
Test Music Blocks on the Music Blocks web site from your computer, tablet, or phone.


Sugarizer


Your Equipment
Your Operating System
Recommendations


You have a computer
Linux, Windows or macOS
Install the Sugarizer package for your operating system.


You have a tablet or phone
Android
Install the Sugarizer app from Google Play.


You have a tablet or phone
iOS
Install the Sugarizer app from the App Store.


You have just a browser
Any
Test Sugarizer on the Sugarizer web site.



Complete the activity development tutorial

Sugar Desktop


Your Equipment
Your Operating System
Recommendations


You have only one computer and don't want to erase it
Linux, Windows, macOS, or iOS
Install virtualisation software, make a new virtual machine and install Sugar Live Build, Sugar on a Stick, Ubuntu, Fedora, or Debian.


You have only one computer and don't want to erase it
Linux
Install Sugar packages from your distribution, see Ubuntu, Fedora, or Debian. For other distributions, contact your distribution community.


You have another computer that can be erased
Doesn't matter
Install Sugar Live Build, Sugar on a Stick, Ubuntu, Fedora, or Debian.



Learn how to use Sugar and activities, see Help,
Setup a development environment

 Coding, Documentation and Quality Assurance
Coding, documentation and quality assurance is important - it is required everywhere from producing new software, rolling out new features, maintaining and upgrading current releases, distributing instructions for others to know how to operate the software, and ensuring that others can use software without any problem.

We have critical projects listed under the Projects Tab, including porting to GTK 3 and migrating to Python 3. These are great places for Python programmers to jump in.
We have mentoring opportunities through our participation in programs such as Google Summer Of Code. Please note that only experienced community members can be mentors.
Another way you can contribute to Sugar Labs is the Release Engineer's Feature Tracking page. These are features proposed and implemented by other Sugar Labs community contributors. The progress of the feature is also indicated in the page - please contribute to tasks which are "In Progress".
You can test Sugar and Activities and familiarise yourself with Sugar, making a note of where your expectation is betrayed by your observations, then seek feedback from others to learn if your expectation was right, and post inconsistencies to the corresponding GitHub repository issues page, Wiki, or mailing list sugar-devel@lists.laptop.org,
You can go to a specific GitHub repository and work on the bugs in the source code.  Choose the "Issues" tabs and work through the various issues listed in it. The main Sugar Labs GitHub Repositories are listed in the "Important Sugar Labs Links".
You can write documentation, see the Wiki, the Help Activity which is kept in the Help repository, and this developer documentation.
You can update web sites, see www.sugarlabs.org which is kept in the www-sugarlabs repository.
You can choose to write your own desktop activity or write your own web activity.
You can port activities which are in GTK+ 2 to GTK+ 3, using the guide.
You can port activities which are in Python 2 to Python 3, using the guide.
You can test code coverage of activities, using the guide.

 Design
Design is also crucial to Sugar Labs - it is where new ideas and initiatives are formed into proper reports which can be worked on. You can either contribute a new design proposal or implement an existing one in the Design Team User Experience Proposals wiki page.
 Marketing/Outreach
You can help to increase the number of Sugar Labs users through -

Write translations, see Translation Team and translate.sugarlabs.org, thereby the user experience of users speaking other languages.
Publish blogs and detail your experience using Sugar Labs software, introducing more people to use Sugar Labs software.
Design and execute lesson plans to introduce more children and youth to Sugar Labs, either in schools, outside school or in an informal setting.

 Important Sugar Labs Links
The links listed below are of important Sugar Labs code repositories, wiki and website. Some of the code repositories are based under the Sugar Labs GitHub Organisation, while others are not.
Github Organisation Page

Sugar Labs

GitHub Repositories Under Sugar Labs

Sugar Shell for GTK+ 3
Sugar Toolkit for GTK+ 2
Sugar Toolkit for GTK+ 3
Sugar Build/Development Scripts
Sugar Artwork
Sugar Labs Documentation
Sugar Labs Website
TurtleBlocksJS
MusicBlocks
Help Activity

GitHub Repositories Not Under Sugar Labs

Sugarizer

Other Relevant Links

Sugar Labs Website
Sugar Labs Wiki
Sugar Labs Matrix Channel

I'm Stuck!
Well, don't worry; there are real people here who will try to help you. Some
ways to get in touch with real people are:

Hang out on the Matrix channel.
Send an email on the mailing list
